Chapter 95
Sabbath Reform
==============

Speaking of those who substitute a man made commandment for one of God's
commandments, what kind of worship does Christ say they render? “But in vain they
do worship Me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men." Matt. 15:9.
Concerning what commandment did Christ reprove the Pharisees on that
occasion? “For God commanded, saying, Honor thy father and mother; ...but ye say,
Whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, It is a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be
profited by me; and honor not his father or his mother, he shall be free." Matt. 15:4-6.
What was the result of their course? “Thus have ye made the commandment of
God of none effect by your tradition." Matt. 15:6.
What question did the disciples soon afterward ask Christ concerning what
He had said? "Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended, after they heard this
saying?" Matt. 15:12.
What answer did the Saviour make? “But He answered and said, Every plant
which My heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up." Matt. 15:13.
Where and by whom was the Sabbath of the fourth commandment planted?
“For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested
the seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it." Ex. 20:11.
Who claims to have planted the Sunday institution?
"Question - Has the church power to make any alterations in the commandments of
God?
"Answer - Instead of the seventh day, and other festivals appointed by the old law,
the church has prescribed the Sundays and holy days to be set apart for God's worship; and
these we are now obliged to keep in consequence of God's commandment, instead of the
ancient Sabbath." Catholic Christian Instructed, page 204, ed. Kelly, Piet and Co.,
Baltimore.
When is salvation to be brought to the people of God? “Who are kept by the
power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time." 1 Peter 1:5
(Isa. 25:9) (Isa. 35:4).
When God's salvation is near to come, and the advent doctrine is being
preached, for what will God pronounce a blessing on the people? “My salvation is near
to come, and My righteousness to be revealed. Blessed is the man that doeth this, and the
son of man that layeth hold on it; that keepeth the Sabbath from polluting it, and keepeth
his hand from doing any evil." Isa. 56:1, 2.
Is this promise to be confined to the Jews at that time? “Also the sons of the
stranger, that join themselves to the Lord, to serve Him, and to love the name of the Lord,
to be His servants, everyone that keepeth the Sabbath from polluting it, and taketh hold of
My covenant; even them will I bring to My holy mountain, and make them joyful in My
house of prayer." Isa. 56:6, 7.
What other promise has He given to the Gentiles who will then keep the
Sabbath? “Even unto them will I give in Mine house and within M¥ walls a place and a
name better than of sons and of daughters: I will give them an everlasting name, that shall
not be cut off." Isa. 56:5.
NOTE. - It is evident from these scriptures that in the last days, when men are waiting for the
Saviour to appear, there will be a call for those who really love the Lord to separate themselves from the
world by observing the Lord's Sabbath.
What does God call upon His ministers to say to His professed people at this
time? “Cry aloud, and spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and show My people their
transgression, and the house of Jacob their sins." Isa. 58:1.
After speaking of their lack of devotion in certain directions, and offering a
corrective, what other wrong does He point out and offer a remedy for? “If thou turn
away thy foot from the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on My holy day; and call the
Sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honorable; and shalt honor Him, not doing thine
own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words." Isa. 58:13.
NOTE. - The Sabbath of Jehovah is not now, by the majority, called holy and honorable. It is by
many stigmatized as "Jewish." The prophet undoubtedly saw how this would be in this age, and was moved to
speak as he did because of this. "Turn away thy foot from the Sabbath." This is a strong expression to show
that many would trample upon God's day, and do their own pleasure upon it, instead of seeking God's honor.
To those who will have courage to heed the appeal here given, what does the
Lord promise? “Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord; and I will cause thee to ride
upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father; for the
mouth of the Lord hath spoken it." Isa. 58:14.
And what will those be called who turn from their transgressions? “And thou
shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in." Isa. 58:12.
What does another prophet say that God's professed teachers will do? “Her
priests have violated My law, and have profaned Mine holy things; they have put no
difference between the holy and profane, neither have they showed difference between the
unclean and the clean, and have hid their eyes from My Sabbaths, and I am profaned among
them." Eze. 22:26.
What does He say they have done to maintain their theories? “And her
prophets have daubed them with untempered mortar, seeing vanity, and divining lies unto
them, saying, Thus saith the Lord God, when the Lord hath not spoken." Eze. 22:28.
What does the Lord say will become of this wall thus daubed with untempered
mortar? “Say unto them which daub it with untempered mortar, that it shall fall; there
shall be an overflowing shower; and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a stormy wind
shall rend." Eze. 13:11.
When are these hailstones to fall? "Hast thou entered into the treasures of the
snow? or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail, which I have reserved against the time of
trouble, against the day of battle and war?" Job 38:22, 23.
Under which of the seven last plagues will this battle take place?” And the
seventh angel poured our his vial into the air; ...and the cities of the nations fell; ...and
every island fled away, and the mountains were not found. And there fell upon men a great
hail out of heaven, every stone about the weight of a talent." Rev. 16:17-21.
In order to prepare His people for that terrible time, what does God expect
His ministers to do? "Ye have not gone up into the gaps, neither made up the hedge for the
house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of the Lord." Eze. 13:5.
Instead of their trying to close the breach made in God's law (the loss of the
Sabbath), and to make up the hedge, what will they do? “They have seen vanity and
lying divination, saying The Lord saith: and the Lord hath not sent them: and they have
made others to hope that they would confirm the word." Eze. 13:6.
During these closing scenes, what message will God send forth to call attention
to His commandments?” And the third angel followed them, saying with aloud voice, If
any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his
hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God... Here is the patience of the
saints; here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus." Rev.
14:9-12.
How are those of the remnant church treated? “And the dragon was wroth with
the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the
commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ." Rev. 12:17.
And when the earth is made new, and God's people are saved therein, how
often will they all come to worship Him?” And it shall come to pass, that from one new
moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, shall all flesh come to worship before
Me, saith the Lord." Isa. 66:23.
Will the tree of life also be restored to the saints? “Blessed are they that do His
commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the
gates into the city." Rev. 22:14.
NOTE. - Everything pure and holy will then be restored, and the obnoxious weed planted by the
Roman Church to take the honor of the plant started by the hand of Jehovah, will then be rooted up. That time
is near. All may now heed the word of God, and accept the closing message of the third angel to the world,
and so be counted among those who will be called the Repairers of the breach, and the Restorers of paths to
dwell in.