Chapter 102
Origin, History, and Destiny of Satan
=====================================

Have any others than the human family sinned? “God spared not the angels that
sinned, but cast them down to hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be
reserved unto judgment." 2 Peter 2:4.
What is the name of him who led them to sin? “Depart from Me, ye cursed, into
everlasting fire, prepared for the Devil and his angels." Matt. 25:41.
Is he known by any other name? “And the great dragon was cast out, that old
serpent, called the Devil and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world." Rev. 12:9.
Where was his abode before he fell? “And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as
lightning fall from heaven." Luke 10:18.
What was his position in heaven? “Thou are the anointed cherub that covereth;
and I have set thee so; thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou hast walked up and
down in the midst of the stones of fire." Eze. 28:14.
What was his condition when created? “Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the
day that thou was created, till iniquity was found in thee." Eze. 28:15.
Why was he cast from his high position? “By the multitude of thy merchandise
they have filled the midst of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned; therefore I will cast
thee as profane out of the mountain of God; and I will destroy thee, O covering cherub,
from the midst of the stones of fire." Eze. 28:16.
Where were the cherubim placed in the earthly sanctuary erected by Moses?
“And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the holiest of all; which had the
golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the
golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant; and
over it the cherubim of glory shadowing [covering] the mercy seat." Heb. 9:3-5 (Ex.
25:16-22).
Of what was this sanctuary a pattern? “It was therefore necessary that the
patterns of things in the heavens should be purified with these." Heb. 9:23; 8:1-5.
Is there a temple in heaven, containing the ark of the testament, or covenant?
“And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in His temple the ark of
His testament." Rev. 11:19.
In the earthly sanctuary, where did God dwell by the symbol of His presence?
“I will commune with thee from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubim
which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in
commandment unto the children of Israel." Ex. 25:22.
Where is God's throne in heaven? "'The Lord reigneth: let the people tremble: he
sitteth between the cherubim; let the earth be moved." Ps. 99:1.
When cast out of the mountain of God, to what place was Satan banished, to
be kept till the judgment? “For if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them
down to hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment.." 2
Peter 2:4.
What has been the character of Satan ever since he has had access to this
world? “He that committeth sin is of the Devil; for the Devil sinneth from the beginning."
1 John 3:8.
Was he ever in the truth? "Ye are of your father the Devil, and the lusts of your
father ye will do; he was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth." John
8:44.
What is the only "beginning" of which we have any knowledge? “In the
beginning God created the heaven and the earth." Gen. 1:1.
What has been the result of Satan's bringing sin into the world through our
first parents? “And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in
wickedness." 1 John 5:19.
When Christ came to redeem the world, what did Satan do to Him? “And
immediately the Spirit driveth Him into the wilderness. And He was there in the wilderness
forty days tempted of Satan; and was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto
Him." Mark 1:12, 13. See also Matt. 4:1-11.
How severely was Christ tempted? “For we have not a High Priest which cannot
be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are,
yet without sin." Heb. 4:15.
Has the church suffered persecution since the days of Christ? “And when the
dragon [Satan. verse 9] saw that he was cast unto the earth, he persecuted the woman [the
church] ." Rev. 12:13.
NOTE. - Many millions of the people of God have been put to death since the Christian era by
papists, to say nothing of those who suffered martyrdom at the hands of pagan persecutors. See "Buck's
Theological Dictionary," and any commentary or church history. See also reading on "A Remarkable
Symbol." page 146.
Will the last, or remnant, church feel his wrath? and why? “And the dragon
was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep
the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ." Rev. 12:17.
How will he deceive men in the closing work of the gospel? “And deceiveth
them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the
sight of the beast." Rev. 13:14.
What will be the tendency of this work? “For they are the spirits of devils,
working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to
gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty." Rev. 16:14.
Why will men be thus allowed to fall under the delusion of Satan? “They
received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved. And for this cause God shall
send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie, that they all might be damned
who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in un. righteousness." 2 Thess. 2:10-12.
What will be his last work? “And when the thousand years are expired, Satan
shall be loosed out of his prison, and shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the
four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle, the number of
whom is as the sand of the sea." Rev. 20:7, 8.
As Satan and his host compass the camp of the saints, what will take place?
“And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the camp of the saints about,
and the beloved city; and fire came down from God out of heaven, and devoured them."
Rev. 20:9.
What doom will he finally meet? “I will bring thee to ashes upon the earth in the
sight of all them that behold thee. All they that know thee among the people shall be
astonished at thee: thou shalt be a terror, and never shalt thou be anymore." Eze. 28:18, 19;
Heb. 2:14.
What exhortation is given to Christians in view of Satan's hatred of them? “Be
sober, be vigilant; because your adversary, the Devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about,
seeking whom he may devour; whom resist steadfast in the faith." 1 Peter 5:8, 9.