Chapter 84
God's Memorial
==============

What is to endure throughout all generations? "Thy name, O Lord, endureth
forever; and thy memorial, O Lord, throughout all generations." Psalm 135:13.
NOTE. - Memorial. - "Anything intended to preserve the memory of a person, an occurrence, or the
like; something which serves to keep something else in remembrance; a monument." Webster.
Does the Bible give any illustration of this definition? “And these stones shall be
for a memorial unto the children of Israel forever." Joshua 4:7.
What were these stones to commemorate? “And he spake unto the children of
Israel, saying, When your children shall ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What
mean these stones? then ye shall let your children know, saying, Israel came over this
Jordan on dry land." Joshua 4:21, 22.
What was another memorial instituted to commemorate another signal
providence in behalf of the Israelites? “And this day shall be unto you for a memorial,
and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a feast
by an ordinance forever." Exodus 12:14 (Exodus 13:3-9).
Does God design that His power in creating the world shall be remembered, as
well? “The works of the Lord are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein.
His work is honorable and glorious; and His righteousness endureth forever. He hath made
His wonderful works to be remembered." Psalm 111:2-4.
What memorial has He given by which to remember it? “Remember the
Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work: but the seventh
day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God;... for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth,
the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day; wherefore [for this reason] the
Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it." Exodus 20:8-11.
For what reason does He say again that He gave the Sabbath to the children of
Israel? “Moreover also I gave them My Sabbaths to be a sign between Me and them, that
they might know that I am the Lord that sanctify them." Ezekiel 20:12.
How long was the Sabbath to be a sign, or memorial, of the true God?” It is a
sign between Me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days the Lord made heaven
and earth, and on the seventh day He rested, and was refreshed." Exodus 31:17.
Who are the children of Israel? Neither, because they are the seed of Abraham,
are they all children:... but the children of the promise are counted for the seed." Romans
9:7, 8.
What did the promises to Abraham embrace? “Now to Abraham and his seed
were the promises made. He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy
seed, which is Christ." Galatians 3:16.
When we receive Christ, what relation do we sustain to Abraham and the
promises? “And if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the
promise." Galatians 3:29.
What does James denominate the Christian church? “James, a servant of God
and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting."
James 1:1.
When redeemed, will the saints remember God's creative power? “Thou art
worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power; for thou hast created all things, and
for Thy pleasure they are and were created." Rev. 4:11.
How often will they congregate to worship the Lord? “And it shall come to pass,
that from one new moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, shall all flesh come
to worship before Me, saith the Lord." Isaiah 66:23.
How long will this state of things exist? “For as the new heavens and the new
earth, which I will make, shall remain before Me, saith the Lord, so shall your seed and
your name remain." Isaiah 66:22.
NOTE. - The Sabbath, which is the memorial of God's creative power, will never cease to exist.
When this sinful state of things shall give way to a sinless new earth, the fact upon which the Sabbath
institution is based will still remain, and those who shall be permitted to live in the new earth, will still
commemorate the creative power of God, while singing the song of Moses and the Lamb. Revelation 15:3.
Thus the words of David will be proven true: "Thy name, O Lord, endureth forever; and thy memorial, O
Lord, throughout all generations." Psalm 135:13.