Chapter 87
Manner of Observing the Sabbath
===============================

How are all commanded to keep the Sabbath? “Remember the Sabbath day, to
keep it holy." Ex. 20:8.
What constitutes a day? “The evening and the morning were the first day." Gen.
1:5, 8, 13.
When does the evening begin? “But the place which the Lord thy God shall
choose to place His name in, there thou shalt sacrifice the Passover at even, at the going
down of the sun." Deut. 16:6.
How does the New Testament state this point? “And at even, when the sun did
set, they brought unto Him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with
devils." Mark 1:32.
When did the tenth day of the seventh month begin? “Also on the tenth day of
this seventh month there shall be a day of atonement... It shall be unto you a sabbath of rest,
and ye shall afflict your souls; in the ninth day of the month at even, from even unto even,
shall ye celebrate your sabbath." Lev. 23:27-32.
NOTE. - It is plain that if the tenth day of the seventh month began on the evening of the ninth day,
at the going down of the sun, then the seventh day of the week, or the Sabbath, always began on the evening
of the sixth day, at the going down of the sun.
What kind of labor is permitted through the week? “Six days shall thou labor,
and do all thy work." Ex. 20:9.
NOTE. - That is, whatever secular yet lawful work presents itself to be performed, may be done on
any or all of the six working days. Such is called "thy work."
Is any kind of labor lawful on the Sabbath? “Wherefore it is lawful to do well on
the Sabbath days." Matt.12:12.
What example did the Saviour give to show the meaning of His words? “Then
saith He to the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it forth; and it was restored
whole, like as the other." Matt. 12:13.
NOTE. - Disinterested works of mercy toward man or beast are always in place. From reading the
entire chapter, it will be seen that the Saviour also classed the work of the priests in the temple, though very
arduous, as necessary, because it was the Lord's work, and was therefore not a violation of the Sabbath law.
What is the day before the Sabbath called?” And that day was the preparation,
and the Sabbath drew on." Luke 23:54.
On which day did the Israelites receive their Sabbath supply of manna?” And
it came to pass, that on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for one
man." Ex. 16:22.
What instruction did they receive regarding this double supply of food? “And
he said unto them, This is that which the Lord hath said, Tomorrow is the rest of the holy
Sabbath unto the Lord; bake that which ye will bake today, and seethe [boil] that ye will
seethe; and that which remaineth over lay up for you to be kept until the morning." Ex.
16:23.
Was there any day in which the manna did not fall? “Six days ye shall gather it;
but on the seventh day, which is the Sabbath, in it there shall be none." Ex. 16:26.
NOTE. - God's dealing with His people in the wilderness shows that elaborate preparation of food
on the Sabbath is a violation of the Sabbath precept.
What were God's ancient people to do on the Sabbath? “Six days shall work be
done; but the seventh day is the Sabbath of rest, a holy convocation." Lev. 23:3.
What example did the Saviour set in this matter?” And He came to Nazareth,
where He had been brought up; and, as His custom was, He went into the synagogue on the
Sabbath day, and stood up for to read." Luke 4:16.
How sacredly should the Sabbath be observed? “If thou turn away thy foot from
the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on My holy day; and call the Sabbath a delight, the
holy of the Lord, honorable: and shalt honor Him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding
thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words." Isa. 58:13.