Chapter 71
The Law Given at Sinai
======================

How does Nehemiah describe the giving of the law at Sinai? “Thou camest
down also upon mount Sinai, and spakest with them from heaven, and gavest them right
judgments, and true laws, good statutes and commandments: and madest known unto them
Thy holy Sabbath, and commandedst them precepts, statutes, and laws, by the hand of
Moses." Nehemiah 9:13, 14.
What was the primary advantage possessed by the Hebrews? “What advantage
then hath the Jew?... chiefly, because that unto them were committed the oracles of God."
Romans 3:1, 2.
Before the law was given at Sinai, how did Moses render judgment to the
people? “When they have a matter, they come unto me and I judge between one and
another, and I do make them know the statutes of God, and His laws." Exodus 18:16.
In the wilderness, before reaching Sinai, how did Moses explain the absence of
the manna on the seventh day? “He said unto them, This is that which the Lord hath said,
Tomorrow is the rest of the holy Sabbath unto the Lord... Six days ye shall gather it; but on
the seventh day, which is the Sabbath, in it there shall be none." Exodus 16:23-26.
When some of the people went out to gather manna on the seventh day, what
did the Lord say to Moses? “And the Lord said unto Moses, How long refuse ye to keep
My commandments and My laws?" Verse 28.
What additional evidence do we have that the moral law of Ten
Commandments existed before it was proclaimed at Mount Sinai? “By one's
disobedience many were made sinners." Romans 5:19. "Whosoever committeth sin
transgresseth also the law: for sin is the transgression of the law." 1 John 3:4.
How were the Ten Commandments first presented to the people at Sinai?
“God spake all these words, saying,... Thou shalt have no other gods before Me." Exodus
20:1-3.
How was it then written down as a permanent record? “He gave unto Moses,
when he had made an end of communing with him upon mount Sinai two tables of
testimony, tables of stone, written with the finger of God." Ex. 31:18.
NOTE. - The law of God, as well as the knowledge of creation, the plan of redemption, and the
experiences of the early patriarchs, had been handed down from father to son until this time, but not in written
form. He wrote the Ten Commandments upon two tables of stone with His own finger.
How did Moses show that the children of Israel had broken their part of the
covenant between them and God? “It came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the
camp, that he saw the [golden] calf, and the dancing: and Moses' anger waxed hot, and he
cast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount." Exodus 32:19.
With what exactness did the Lord write the law the second time? “He wrote on
the tables, according to the first writing, the ten commandments, which the Lord spake
unto you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and the Lord
gave them unto me." Deuteronomy 10:4.
Where did Moses place these two tables of stone? “I... put the tables in the ark
which I had made; and there they be, as the Lord commanded me." Verse 5.
What other law was also given at this time? “When Moses had made an end of
writing the words of this law in a book, until they were finished." Deut. 31:24.
NOTE. - Besides the Ten Commandment law, the Lord gave to Moses instruction concerning the
sanctuary service, which was ceremonial, and certain civil laws regulating the subjects of the nation. These
laws were written by Moses in a book, and are called the law of Moses, whereas the other law was written on
tables of stone with the finger of God.
Why did the Lord call His people out of the land of Egypt? “He brought forth
His people with joy, and His chosen with gladness:... that they might observe His statutes,
and keep His laws." Psalm 105:43-45.
How were they to teach the law to their children? “Thou shalt teach them
diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sit test in thine house, and
when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up."
Deuteronomy 6:7.
What promise to Israel hinged on their keeping the instructions that He had
given them? “Now therefore, if ye will obey My voice indeed, and keep My covenant,
then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people: for all the earth is Mine: and
ye shall be unto Me a kingdom of priests, and an holy nation." Exodus 19:5, 6.
Was this promise made to the Jews alone? “Now the Lord had said unto Abram,
Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land
that I will shew thee: and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make
thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing: and I will bless them that bless thee, and curse
him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed." Genesis 12:1-3.
If ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise."
Galatians 3:19.
What reveals that the Ten Commandment law, given at Sinai, is the law for
the Christian? “Whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one point, he is
guilty of all, For He that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now if thou
commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law. So speak ye,
and so do, as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty." James 2:10-12.
What is the wages of sin?” The wages of sin is death." Romans 6:23. "In the day
that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die." Genesis 2: 17. "The soul that sinneth, it shall
die." Ezekiel 18:4.
How did death enter this world? “Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the
world, and death by sin,' and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned." Rom.
5:12.
God is merciful, but will His mercy clear the guilty? “The Lord is long
suffering, and of great mercy, forgiving iniquity and transgression, and by no means
clearing the guilty." Numbers 14:18. (See Exodus 34:5-7.)
What is the result of willfully sinning against God?” If we sin willfully after that
we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins,
but a certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation, which shall devour the
adversaries. He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses.
Of how much sorer punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden
under foot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was
sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace?" Hebrews
10:26-29.
To whom is the execution of judgment given? “Vengeance is Mine; I will repay,
saith the Lord." Romans 12:19. "The Father hath... given to the Son... authority to execute
judgement also." John 5:26, 27. (See Jude 14-15.)
What presumptuous way of life do many pursue? “Because sentence against an
evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them
to do evil." Ecclesiastes 8:11.
What message has God sent to men by His appointed messengers? “Say ye to
the righteous, that it shall be well with him: for they shall eat the fruit of their doings. Woe
unto the wicked! it shall be ill with him. "for the reward of his hands shall be given him."
Isaiah 3:10, 11. "We are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us." 2
Corinthians 5:20. (See 2 Timothy 2:24-26.)
How can man escape the penalty of sin? “The wages of sin is death; but the gift of
God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord." Romans 6:23.