Chapter 129
Our Words
===========

What must we do, among other things, if we would love life, and see good
days? “For he that will love life, and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil,
and his lips that they speak no guile." 1 Peter 3:10.
What words has Paul left on record concerning corrupt communication,
foolish talking and jesting? “Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth."
Eph. 4:29. "Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient;
but rather giving of thanks." Eph. 5:4.
What did the Saviour say about idle words? “But I say unto you, That every idle
word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment." Matt.
12:36.
From what does he who keeps his mouth and tongue, keep his soul? "Whoso
keepeth his mouth and his tongue, keepeth his soul from troubles." Prov. 21:23.
How is he who holds his peace, under certain circumstances, regarded by
people of good sense? “Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise; and he
that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding." Prov. 17:28.
What influence have kind words and a wholesome tongue upon others? “A
soft answer turneth away wrath." Prov. 15:1. "A wholesome tongue is a tree of life." Prov.
15:4.
What is the effect of grievous words? “Grievous words stir up anger." Prov.
15:1. "There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword." Prov. 12:18.
Contrast the abiding future of the truthful, with the brief continuance of such
as speak falsely? “The lip of truth shall be established forever; but a lying tongue is but for
a moment." Prov. 12:19.
Are words a sure index of the heart? “For out of the abundance of the heart the
mouth speaketh." Matt. 12:34.
What is said of the man who offends not in word? “If any man offend not in
word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body." James 3:2.
What is said of the professed Christian whose language is unbecoming? “If any
man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, ... this man's religion is
vain." James 1:26.
Will our words have weight in the judgment? “For by thy words thou shalt be
justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned." Matt. 12:37.
By these forcible scriptures, what startling truth is established? “Death and
life are in the power of the tongue." Prov. 18:21.
What should be the constant prayer of each heart? “Let the words of my mouth,
and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my
Redeemer." Ps. 19:14.