Chapter 124
Comfort in Affliction
=====================

Has anything been left as a legacy to the righteous? “Many are the afflictions of
the righteous; but the Lord delivereth him out of them all." Ps. 34:19.
What ought those in affliction to have from their friends? “To him that is
afflicted, pity should be showed from his friend." Job 6:14.
If one visits, and shows pity toward those in affliction, what does it indicate
that he possesses? “Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit
the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the
world." James 1:27.
What did David say with reference to his affliction? “It is good for me that I
have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes." Ps. 119:71.
Before he had affliction, what was his tendency? “Before I was afflicted I went
astray; but now have I kept thy word." Ps. 119:67.
When affliction came upon him, what did he consider it was for? “Look upon
mine affliction and my pain, and forgive all my sins." Ps. 25:18.
How does God regard the cry of the afflicted? “He heareth the cry of the
afflicted." Job 34:28.
With what feelings does the Lord look upon His children? “Like as a father
pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear Him." Ps. 103:13.
What has the Lord promised to be to those who are oppressed? “The Lord also
will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble." Ps. 9:9.
When the Saviour was about to go away from the earth, what did He say He
would send to His disciples? “If I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but
if I depart, I will send Him unto you." John 16:7.
What is the Comforter called? “But when the Comforter is come, whom I will
send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father,
He shall testify of Me." John 15:26.
What has the Lord promised to the mourner? “Blessed are they that mourn; for
they shall be comforted." Matt. 5:4.
What prophetic words were especially designed to comfort the mothers in
Bethlehem who should mourn for having lost their innocent children through the
envy of Herod? "Thus saith the Lord: Refrain thy voice from weeping, and thine eyes
from tears: for thy work shall be rewarded, saith the Lord; and they shall come again from
the land of the enemy." Jer. 31:16 (compare with Matt. 2:16-18).
What does the apostle present as a comfort to those who have lost dear friends
by death? “For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep
in Jesus will God bring with Him... Wherefore comfort one another with these words." 1
Thess. 4:14-18.
When one has received the Comforter in his heart, what use should he make
of it? “Who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which
are in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God." 2 Cor.
1:4.
How was Paul once comforted when in trouble? “Nevertheless God, that
comforteth those that are cast down, comforted us by the coming of Titus." 2 Cor. 7:6.
When in affliction, how should one rest his case? “And we know that all things
work together for good to them that love God." Rom. 8:28.
How did the bonds which were endured by Paul work for good? “But I would
ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out
rather unto the furtherance of the gospel; so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the
palace, and in all other places." Phil. 1:12.
How does Christ exhort those who have tribulation in the world? “These things
I have spoken unto you, that in Me ye might have peace, In the world ye shall have
tribulation; but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world." John 16:33.
What comforted the apostle in these troubles? “For I reckon that the sufferings
of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in
us." Rom. 8:18.
What did he call the troubles that beset him? “For our light affliction, which is
but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory." 2 Cor.
4:17.