Chapter 115
The Ministration of Good Angels
===============================

Of what family does Paul speak in Ephesians 3:14, 15? "For this cause I bow my
knees unto the Father of our lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and
earth is named."
By what name are the members of this family called? “Now there was a day
when the sons of God [angels] came to present themselves before the Lord." Job. 1:6.
"Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called
the sons of God." 1 John 3:1.
By what name are they known to us? “And I beheld, and I heard the voice of
many angels round about the throne." Rev. 5:11.
Did angels exist before the death of any of the human family? “So He drove out
the man: and He placed at the east of the garden of Eden cherubim." Gen. 3:24.
Who witnessed the laying of the foundations of the earth? “Whereupon are the
foundations thereof fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof; when the morning stars
sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?" Job 38:6, 7.
How many of these beings did John see around the throne? “And I beheld, and
I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, and the beasts and the elders; and
the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands."
Rev. 5:11.
What does Paul say of their number? “But ye are come unto Mount Sion, and
unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of
angels." Heb. 12:22.
What shows that those angels sent to Abraham were real beings? “And he took
butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them; and he stood by
them under the tree, and they did eat." Gen. 18:8 (Gen. 19:3).
What seems to be the principle employment of the angels? “Are they not all
ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation?" Heb.
1:14.
How do they minister to God's people? “The angel of the Lord encampeth round
about them that fear Him, and delivereth them." Ps. 34:7.
Give examples of their ministrations. “My God hath sent His angel, and hath
shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me; forasmuch as before Him innocency was
found in me." Dan. 6:22. See also 2 Kings 6:8-17; Dan. 9:21; 10:12; Acts 12:5-11.
When Nebuchadnezzar commanded all his subjects to worship the golden
image, and the three Hebrews were cast into the fiery furnace for refusing to obey his
edict, how were they protected from the ravages of the fire? “I see four men loose,
walking in the midst of the fire, and they have no hurt; and the form of the fourth is like the
son of God." "Then Nebuchadnezzar spake, and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego, who hath sent His angel, and delivered His servants that trusted
in Him, and have changed the king's word, and yielded their bodies, that they might not
serve nor worship any god, except their own God." Dan. 3:25, 28.
When Elijah was to take his forty days' journey from near Beersheba to
Mount Horeb, how was he strengthened for the task? “And the angel of the Lord came
again the second time, and touched him, and said, Arise and eat; because the journey is too
great for thee. And he arose, and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of that meat
forty days and forty nights unto Horeb the mount of God." 1 Kings 19:7, 8.
What interest do angels have in the plan of salvation? “Which things the angels
desire to look into." 1 Peter 1:12.
Are they interested in individual cases? “Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in
the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth." Luke 15:10.
Before whom are we said to speak when excusing ourselves from a vow?
“Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay. Suffer
not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou before the angel, that it was an
error; wherefore should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the work of thine hands?"
Eccl. 5:5, 6.
For what must men give account in the judgment? “But I say unto you, That
every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of
judgment." Matt. 12:36. (Eccl. 12:13, 14).
From what will they be judged? “And I saw the dead, small and great, stand
before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book
of life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books,
according to their works." Rev. 20:12.
Are the actions of men recorded? “And the Lord hearkened, and heard it, and a
book of remembrance was written before Him for them that feared the Lord, and that
thought upon His name." Mal. 3:16 (Isa. 65:5, 6) (Jer. 2:22).
When the judgment books are opened, will the angels be present to minister
before God? “A fiery stream issued and came forth from before Him; thousand thousands
ministered unto Him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before Him; the judgment
was set, and the books were opened." Dan. 7:10.
What will be done for those whose record shows them to have been
overcomers? "He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will
not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before My Father,
and before His angels." Rev. 3:5.
When that work is done, and the Saviour comes to gather those who have been
accounted His, who will come with Him? “For the Son of man shall come in the glory of
His Father with His angels; and then He shall reward every man according to his works."
Matt. 16:27.
What part will they act at this time? “And He shall send His angels with a great
sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together His elect from the four winds, from one
end of heaven to the other." Matt. 24:31.
Where will the saints go? “Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up
together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air; and so shall we ever be with
the Lord." 1 Thess. 4:17.
What shout of triumph will they raise as they come out of their graves? "O
death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?" 1 Cor. 15:55.
What will be the final song of victory? “And they sing the song of Moses the
servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, Saying, Great and marvelous are Thy works,
Lord God Almighty; just and true are Thy ways, Thou King of saints." Rev. 15:3.