Chapter 47
The Atonement in the Old Testament
==================================

Why was Abel's sacrifice more acceptable to God than Cain’s? “By faith Abel
offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain." Heb. 11:4.
To what did his sacrifice point forward? "Ye were not redeemed with
corruptible things,... but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish
and without spot: Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world." 1 Peter
1:18-20.
By his sacrifice, what did Abel obtain? “He obtained witness that he was
righteous." Heb. 11:4.
With what sacrifice did God command Abraham to worship Him? “And He
said unto him, Take Me a heifer of three years old, and a she goat of three years old, and a
ram of three years old... And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst, and
laid each piece one against another." Gen. 15:1, 10.
How did Jacob manifest his faith in the promised Redeemer? “And Israel took
his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God
of his father Isaac." Gen. 46:1.
What did the lord command Moses to have made? “And the Lord spake unto
Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, that they bring me an offering; ..and let
them make Me a sanctuary: that I may dwell among them." Ex. 25:1, 8 (Acts 7:44) (Heb.
8:5). "Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen, and
blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubim of cunning work shalt thou make them." "And
thou shalt make curtains goats' hair to be a covering upon the tabernacle: even curtains
shalt thou make." "And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and
a covering above of badgers' skins." Ex. 26:1, 7, 14.
How many apartments had the sanctuary?” And the veil shall divide unto you
between the holy place and the most holy." Ex. 26:33.
What was in the first apartment? “For there was a tabernacle made; the first,
wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread; which is called the
sanctuary." Heb 9:2.
What other article was in the first apartment? “And he put the golden altar in
the tent of the congregation before the veil." Ex. 40:26 (Ex. 30:1-6).
What was contained in the second apartment, or the most holy place? “And
after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the Holiest of all; which had the golden
censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden
pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant." Heb.
9:3-4 (Ex. 40:20, 21).
By what name was the cover of the ark known? “And thou shalt put the mercy
seat above upon the ark; and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee."
Ex.25:21.
Where was God, by the symbol of His presence, to meet with Israel's high
priest? “And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the
mercy seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony." Ex.
25:22.
What was in the ark, under the mercy seat? “And He wrote on the tables,
according to the first writing, the ten commandments... And I turned myself and came
down from the mount, and put the tables in the ark which I had made." Deut. 10:4, 5.
When this building was completed, for what purpose was it used, and who
daily officiated in the first apartment? “Now when these things were thus ordained, the
priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God." Heb. 9:6.
Who only was allowed in the second apartment? How often? And for what
purpose? “But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without
blood, which he offered for himself, and for the errors of the people." Heb. 9:7.
How does one commit sin? “Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the
law: for sin is the transgression of the law." 1 John 3:4.
And what is the wages of sin? “The wages of sin is death." Rom. 6:23.
When one of the common people thus sinned, what must he then do, to save
his life? “And if anyone of the common people sin through ignorance, while he doeth
somewhat against any of the commandments of the Lord,... then he shall bring his offering,
a kid of the goats, a female without blemish, for his sin which he hath sinned. And he shall
lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and slay the sin-offering in the place of the
burnt offering." Lev. 4:27-29.
What was done with the blood? “And the priest shall take of the blood thereof
with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all
the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar." Lev. 4:30.
How was the body of the sin offering to be disposed of? “This is the law of the
sin-offering: In the place where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin offering be killed
before the Lord; it is most holy. The priest that offereth it for sin shall eat it; in the holy
place shall it be eaten." Lev. 6:25, 26. See verse 16.
After the accumulation of the sins of the year in this way, what took place on
the tenth day of the seventh month? “And this shall be a statue forever unto you: that in
the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, ye shall afflict your souls;... For on that
day shall the priest make an atonement for you, to cleanse you, that ye may be clean from
all your sins before the Lord." Lev. 16:29, 30.
NOTE. - It seems by this that the atonement was not completed till the end of the ceremonial year.
Atonement signifies "expiation; satisfaction or reparation made by giving an equivalent for an injury."
Webster.
After making an offering for himself, what did the high priest next do? “And
he shall take the two goats, and present them before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle
of the congregation. And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats; one lot for the lord, and
the other lot for the scapegoat." Lev.16:7, 8.
What was done with the goat upon which the Lord's lot fell? “Then shall he kill
the goat of the sin offering, that is for the people, and bring his blood within the veil, and do
with that blood as he did with the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy seat,
and before the mercy seat." Lev.16:15.
Was it necessary to make this atonement? “And he shall make an atonement for
the holy place, because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their
transgressions in all their sins; and so shall he do for the tabernacle of the congregation,
that remaineth among them in the midst of their uncleanness." Lev. 16:16.
After the high priest came out of the sanctuary with the sins still on him,
having atoned for them in the most holy place, what did he next do?” And when he
hath made an end of reconciling the holy place, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and
the altar, he shall bring the live goat: and Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of
the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their
transgressions in all their sins, putting them upon the head of the goat, and shall send him
away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness." Lev. 16:20, 21.
Then who bore the sins of the people, after the high priest had put them off,
and the camp was cleansed from them? “And the goat shall bear upon him all their
iniquities unto a land not inhabited: and he shall let go the goat in the wilderness." Lev.
16:22.
THE EARTHLY TABERNACLE
The sanctuary in the wilderness was constructed under the direction of Moses, in
accordance with the pattern shown him in the mount (Ex. 25:7-8, 40; Heb 8:5).
Enclosing this wilderness tabernacle was a Court (sometimes called the Outer
Court) which was made of white curtains attached to poles (Ex. 27:9-18) , and was about
75 feet wide by 150 feet long (based on an 18-inch cubit). Within the Court was the Altar of
Burnt Offering, the laver and the Tabernacle. This altar was also called the Brazen Altar
since there was a second altar, the Golden Altar, inside the Tabernacle. This outside Altar
(Ex. 27: 1-9) was hollow inside and overlaid with brass, and was 5 feet high and 7 1/2 feet
square. Upon this altar were placed the animals that were offered as burnt sacrifice. Just
beyond, stood the brass laver (Ex. 30:18-21), where the priests washed before entering the
Tabernacle.
The earthly sanctuary (Ex. 26:1-37) was a tent with wooden walls, 4 layers as a roof
covering, and gold and beautiful curtaining inside. About 15 by 45 feet in size, this
Tabernacle was portable, so it could be taken apart and moved from place to place in the
journeys of Israel through the wilderness. Divided by an inner veil into two rooms or
apartments, it was the holiest place on earth. The priest entered the First Apartment every
day with blood, and went past the seven-branched Golden Candlestick, with its seven
lamps of fire (Ex. 25:31-40); past the Table of Shewbread, containing the dedicated bread
that stood before the Presence of the lord (Ex. 25:23-30); and on to the Altar of Incense, or
Golden Altar (Ex. 30:1-10), from whence the smoke of a specially prepared incense wafted
up, over the top of the dividing veil (which did not reach to the ceiling) and into the Holy of
Holies beyond. Upon the Golden Altar and dividing veil, the priest sprinkled some of the
sacrificial blood (Lev. 4-5). A partial description of this may be found in Hebrews 9:1-7.
All of the furniture within the First and Second Apartments was of solid gold, or covered
with gold.
The Second Apartment, or Most Holy Place (Ex. 26:33) contained the Ark of the
Covenant (Ex. 26:17-22). Between two Cherubim was the glory of the Shekinah the
Presence of God (Ex. 26: 22; 40:34). Beneath it was the Mercy Seat, a solid gold slab that
covered the top of the Ark, wherein lay the foundation of God's government: the Moral law
of Ten Commandments (Ex. 20:3-17) which was written by the finger of God on stone (Ex.
24:12) and then placed in the Ark (Ex. 40:20). All of mankind is to be governed by those
holy precepts, even down to the end of time (Rev. 12:17; 14:12) and beyond (Rev. 22:14;
Isa. 66:22). Only once a year, on the Day of Atonement, did the high priest enter the
Second Apartment to cleanse the Sanctuary and the people of sin (Lev. 16:30, 33-34 and all
of the chapter; Dan. 8:14).