Chapter 12
Prophecies Relating to Christ
=============================

In what words did Moses speak of Christ?
"The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a Prophet from the midst of thee, of thy
brethren, like unto me, unto Him ye shall hearken." Deut. 18:15.
How may we know that the Prophet here spoken of is Christ?
"For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A Prophet shall the Lord your God raise up
unto you of your brethren, like unto me," "Yea, and all the prophets from Samuel and those
that follow after, as many as have spoken, have likewise foretold of these days." Acts 3:22,
24.
Was this prophecy fulfilled?
"Now all this was done [the birth of Jesus of the Virgin Mary], that it might be
fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be
with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call His name Emmanuel, which
being interpreted is, God with us." Matt. 1:22, 23.
Where was He to be born?
"But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, though thou be little among the thousands of
Judah, yet out of thee shall He come forth unto Me that is to be ruler in Israel." Micah 5:2.
Was this prediction fulfilled?
"Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king." Matt. 2:1.
How was His advent to be heralded?
"The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord,
make straight in the desert a highway for our God." Isa. 40:3.
By whom was this fulfilled?
"And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from
Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou?" "He said, I am the voice of one crying in the
wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias." John 1:19.23.
Under what striking emblem was He prophesied of by Balaam?
"There shall come a Star out of Jacob and a Scepter shall rise out of Israel." Num.
24:17.
Is He designated under the same emblem in the New Testament?
"I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star." Rev.
22:16. See also 2 Peter 1:19. Rev. 2:28.
NOTE.-It is also a remarkable fact that a star indicated to the wise men who came from the East to
Bethlehem, the place where He was to be born. Matt. 2:1, 2, 9.
What was predicted of the little children in connection with the birth of
Christ?
"A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, and bitter weeping; Rachel weeping for
her children refused to be comforted for her children, because they were not." Jer. 31:15.
How were these words of the prophet verified?
"Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding
wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts
thereof, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had diligently
inquired of the wise men. Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet,
saying, In Rama was there a voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and great mourning,
Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted, because they are not." Matt.
2:16-18.
How was He to be received by His own people?
"He is despised and rejected of men; a Man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief,
and we hid as it were our faces from Him; He was despised, and we esteemed Him not." Isa.
53:3.
Did this prophecy prove true?
"He was in the world, and the world was made by Him, and the world knew Him
not. He came unto His own, and His own received Him not." John 1:10-11.
What was predicted of His preaching?
"The Spirit of the Lord God is upon Me; because the Lord hath anointed Me to
preach good tidings unto the meek; He hath sent Me to bind up the brokenhearted, to
proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound." Isa
61:1.
In what way was this prediction verified?
"And He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up: and, as His custom was,
He went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up for to read. And there was
delivered unto Him the book of the prophet Esaias. And when He had opened the book, He
found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, because He hath
anointed Me to preach the gospel to the poor: He hath sent Me to heal the brokenhearted, to
preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty
them that are bruised... And He began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled
in your ears." Luke 4:16-21.
What was said He would do when on trial?
"He was oppressed, and He was afflicted, yet He opened not His mouth: He is
brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so He
openeth not His mouth." Isa. 53:7.
When accused by His enemies before Pilate, how did Christ receive their
words?
"Then said Pilate unto Him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against
thee? And He answered him to never a word; insomuch that the governor marveled
greatly." Matt. 27:13,14.
How did the prophecy state that Christ's murderers would dispose of His
garments?
"They part My garments among them, and cast lots upon My vesture." Ps. 22:18.
Was this literally accomplished?
"And they crucified Him, and parted His garments, casting lots: that it might be
fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, They parted My garments among them, and
upon My vesture did they cast lots." Matt. 27:35.
How was it said they would treat Him while on the cross?
"They gave Me also gall for My meat; and in My thirst they gave Me vinegar to
drink." Ps. 69:21.
What was offered Him, when in His dying agony?
"They gave Him vinegar to drink mingled with gall: and when He had tasted
thereof, He would not drink." Matt. 27:34.
Where was the grave of Christ to be made?
"And He made His grave with the wicked, and with the rich in His death." Isa. 53:9.
What was actually done with His body, after it was taken down from the
cross?
"A rich man of Arimathea, named Joseph,... went to Pirate, and begged the body of
Jesus... He wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and laid it in His own new tomb, which he had
hewn out of the rock." Matt. 21:57-60.