Chapter 104
Chapter 104
===========

Chapter 104.)
What promise has been given in order that man may be redeemed from this
condition? “I will ransom them from the power of the grave; will redeem them from death:
O death, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will be thy destruction." Hosea 13:14.
Through whom will come this redemption from the grave? “For since by man
came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so
in Christ shall all be made alive." 1 Corinthians 15:21, 22.
What would have been the result to the dead had not Christ obtained their
release from the grave? “For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised: and if Christ be
not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep
in Christ are perished." Verses 16-18.
Why did God give His only-begotten Son to the world? “For God so loved the
world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not
perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16.
What did the Sadducees in Christ's time deny? “Then came to Him certain of
the Sadducees, which deny that there is any resurrection." Luke 20:27.
Referring to the Old Testament, how did Christ prove the resurrection? “Now
that the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the bush, when he calleth the Lord the God
of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. For He is not a God of the dead,
but of the living: for all live unto Him." Verses 37-38.
What example from nature is used to illustrate the resurrection and the final
salvation of the righteous? “That which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die." 1
Corinthians 15:36. "Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a corn of wheat fall into the
ground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit." John 12:24.
Whose voice raises the dead? “Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the
which all that are in the graves shall hear His voice, and shall come forth." John 5:28, 29.
How many distinct groups, or classes, of people will have a resurrection?
“There shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust." Acts 24:15.
How does Christ describe these two resurrections? “All that are in the graves
shall hear His voice, and shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection
of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation." John 5:28, 29.
When will the resurrection of the just occur? “For The Lord Himself shall
descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the arch-angel, and with the trump of
God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first." 1 Thessalonians 4:16. (See also 1 Corinthians
15:23.)
When are the righteous to receive their final reward? “For thou shalt be
recompensed at the resurrection of the just." Luke 14:14.
How did the Psalmist describe that moment when he comes to life and leaves
the grave? “As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I
awake, with thy likeness." Psalm 17:15.
Will our resurrection bodies be like our present bodies? “So also is the
resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption: it is sown in
dishonour; it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness,. it is raised in power: it is sown a
natural body; it is raised a spiritual body." 1 Corinthians 15:42-44.
After whose body will these resurrected ones be fashioned like unto? “We look
for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ: who shall change our vile body, that it may be
fashioned like unto His glorious body." Philippians 3:20, 21.
In what words is the ultimate triumph over death and the grave expressed? "O
death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?" 1 Corinthians 15:55.
How long will the righteous live? “Neither can they die any more: for they are
equal unto the angels; and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection."
Luke 20:36.
How long does the other class wait after the first resurrection before they are
raised? “And they [ the righteous] lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the
rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished." Rev. 20:4, 5.
What is to be their fate? “And fire came down from heaven and devoured them."
Verse 9.
Who are to share this fate? “But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable,
and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have
their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death."
Rev. 21:8.
What is the last enemy that will be destroyed? “The last enemy that shall be
destroyed is death." 1 Corinthians 15:26. (See Revelation 20:13, 14.)