Chapter 91
The "Mark" of Apostasy
======================

Against what does the third angel warn? “And the third angel followed them,
saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark
in his forehead, or in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God." Rev.
14:9, 10.
By what power is this mark enforced on those who receive it?” And he [the
two-horned beast] causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive
a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads." Rev. 13:16.
What will those keep, who do not receive the mark of the beast? “Here is the
patience of the saints; here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of
Jesus." Rev. 14:12.
NOTE. - It is evident from the foregoing scriptures that the mark of the beast is something directly
opposed to the commandments of God. In the preceding chapter it is shown that as the first beast itself had
enforced the observance of Sunday, the first day of the week, by the secular power, so the two-horned beast
will, in making an image to that beast, enforce the same observance by the same means.
What day is the Sabbath? “But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy
God." Ex. 20:10.
What does God call the Sabbath? “If thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath,
from doing thy pleasure on My holy day." Isa. 58:13.
Of what day is Christ the Lord?” Therefore the Son of man is Lord also of the
Sabbath." Mark 2:28.
What do eminent men say regarding the change of the Sabbath to the first
day? Lyman Abbott, editor of the Christian Union, says in that paper of June 20, 1890:
"The current notion that Christ and His apostles authoritatively substituted the first day for
the seventh, is absolutely without any authority in the New Testament. “The Watchman
(Baptist), in reply to a correspondent, says: "The Scriptures nowhere call the first day of the
week the Sabbath... There is no scriptural authority for so doing, nor, of course, any
scriptural obligation. “The Protestant Episcopal Church says: "The day is now changed
from the seventh to the first day;... but as we meet with no scriptural direction for the
change, we may conclude it was done by the authority of the church." Explanation of
Catechism.
What does the papacy set forth as the mark, or sign of its authority in
commanding men under sin? “By the very act of changing the Sabbath into Sunday,
which Protestants allow of... Because by keeping Sunday they acknowledge the church's
power to ordain feasts, and to command them under sin." Abridgement of Christian
Doctrine, page 58.
What are several modern Sunday advocacy organizations trying to do at the
present time? To enforce Sunday as a religious institution that all of the people, without
exception, will have to observe.
How are they described who submit to this unscriptural requirement? As
being worshipers of the beast and his image.
How strongly will this worship and mark be urged? “That the image of the beast
should both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast
should be killed. And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to
receive a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads; and that no man might buy or sell,
save he that had the mark." Rev. 13:15-17.
What warning does the Lord give against the reception of this mark? “And the
third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his
image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine
of the wrath of God." Rev. 14:9, 10.
What is this wine of God's wrath?” And I saw another sign in heaven, great and
marvelous, seven angels having the seven last plagues; for in them is filled up the wrath of
God." Rev. 15:1.
How extensive will be the worship of the beast? “And all that dwell upon the
earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life." Rev. 13:8.
NOTE. - "But in this homage to the papacy the United States will not be alone. The Influence of
Rome in the countries that once acknowledged her dominion is still far from being destroyed. And prophecy
foretells a restoration of her power. 'I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound
was healed; and all the world wondered after the beast.' The infliction of the deadly wound points to the
abolition of the papacy in 1798. After this, says the prophet, 'His deadly wound was healed; and all the world
wondered after the beast.' Paul states plainly that the man of sin will continue until the second advent. To the
very close of time he will carry forward his work of deception... 'All that dwell upon the earth shall worship
him, whose names are not written in the book of life.' ...In both the Old and the New World, the papacy will
receive homage in the honor paid to the Sunday institution, that rests solely upon the authority of the Roman
Church." Great Controversy, page 579.
Will all receive this mark?” And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire;
and them that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark,
and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God." Rev.
15:2.
The third angel's message warns against the worship of the beast, and the
reception of his mark. What follows this message?” And I looked, and behold a white
cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man, having on His head a golden
crown, and in His hand a sharp sickle." Rev. 14:14.
What does He do at this time?” And He that sat on the cloud thrust in His sickle
on the earth; and the earth was reaped." Rev. 14:16.
What is the reaping time, or the harvest, called? “The harvest is the end of the
world; and the reapers are the angels." Matt. 13:39.
NOTE. - When the mark of the beast is enforced, it will be one of the most critical times the church
of God has ever passed through. As is shown from the last few Scripture quotations, the Lord's coming and
the end of the world follow close after the enforcement of the mark. The third angel's message, which warns
men against the work of the beast and his image, becomes to the present generation one of the most important
concerns of this life.