Chapter 15
Hope
==========

To what is the Christian's hope likened?
"That by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might
have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us:
which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which entereth
into that within the veil." Heb. 6:18, 19.
What is the Christian's hope called?
"Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our
Saviour Jesus Christ." Titus 2:13.
At what time did Paul expect to realize this hope?
"Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the
righteous Judge, shall give me at that day, and not to me only, but unto all them also that
love His appearing." Tim. 4:8.
What is said of the hope of the wicked?
"So are the paths of all that forget God; and the hypocrite's hope shall perish:
whose hope shall be cut off, and whose trust shall be as a spider's web." Job 8:13, 14.
What will be accomplished by him who hath the Christian's hope?
"And every man that hath this hope in Him, purifieth himself, even as He is pure." 1
John 3:3.
How is he accounted whose hope is in God?
"Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the Lord his
God." Ps. 146:5. "Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord, and whose hope the Lord is."
Jer.17:7.
In what may the child of God abound?
"Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may
abound in hope, through the power of the Holy Ghost." Rom. 15:13.
In what may he rejoice?
"By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and
rejoice in hope of the glory of God." Rom.5:2.
When the love of God fills the heart, what is the result?
"And hope maketh not ashamed,. because the love of God is shed abroad in our
hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us." Rom. 5:5.
In the time of trouble, who will be the hope of the righteous?
"The Lord also shall roar out of Zion, and utter His voice from Jerusalem, and the
heavens and the earth shall shake: but the Lord will be the hope of His people, and the
strength of the children of Israel." Joel 3:16.
What inspiring words are spoken to such as hope in God?
"Be of good courage, and He shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the
Lord." Ps. 31:24.
What has the resurrection of Jesus Christ wrought for us?
"Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to His
abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus
Christ from the dead." 1 Peter 1:3.
How long should the Christian's hope endure?
"And we desire that everyone of you do show the same diligence to the full
assurance of hope unto the end." Heb. 6:11.
What end is referred to?
"Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the
grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ." 1 Peter 1:13.