Chapter 37
The Work of the Holy Spirit
===========================

What is the first work the Bible ascribes to the Spirit of God?” And the earth
was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of
God moved upon the face of the waters." Gen. 1:2.
By what power did Christ work miracles? “But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of
God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you." Matt. 12:28.
To what is His resurrection ascribed? “For Christ also hath once suffered for
sins, the just for the unjust, that He might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh,
but quickened by the Spirit." 1 Peter 3:18.
How is conviction produced in the mind of the sinner? “And when He [the
Spirit] is come, He will reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment."
John 16:8 (Gen. 6:3).
What office does the Spirit perform for the Christian? “And I will pray the
Father, and He shall give you another Comforter, that He may abide with you for ever."
John 14:16.
What other work does the Spirit perform? “God hath from the beginning chosen
you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth." 2 Thess. 2:13.
What is the word of God said to be? “And take the helmet of salvation, and the
sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God." Eph. 6:17.
In what manner did the Spirit make known the word? “For the prophecy came
not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the
Holy Ghost." 2 Peter 1:21.
In what manner did the Lord speak to these holy men? “After these things the
word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield,
and thy exceeding great reward." Gen. 15:1 (Num. 12:6) (lsa.1:1) (Eze. 1:1).
Was this gift of the Spirit to be confined mostly to the time of the Old
Testament? “And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out My spirit upon all
flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams,
your young men shall see visions." Joel 2:28.
How did Peter by inspiration render this term afterward? “And it shall come to
pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of My Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons
and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old
men shall dream dreams." Acts 2:17.
What does Paul call the Spirit? “In whom also after that ye believed, ye were
sealed with that holy Spirit of promise." Eph. 1:13.
Why was it thus designated? “Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted,
and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, He hath shed forth this,
which ye now see and hear." Acts 2:33 (Acts 1:4, 5).
Why did Jesus say it was necessary for Him to go unto the Father? “For if I go
not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send Him unto you."
John 16:7.
Were the gifts of the Spirit referred to in this promise? “Wherefore he saith,
When He ascended up on high, He led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men." Eph.
4:8.
What are these gifts? “And He gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and
some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers." Eph. 4:11.
Were all these gifts by the same Spirit? “Now there are diversities of gifts, but
the same Spirit." 1 Cor. 12:4 (Eph. 4:4).
What commission did Christ give to His disciples? “And He said unto them, Go
ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature." Mark 16:15.
Why did they not proceed immediately to that work? “And, behold, I send the
promise of My Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued
with power from on high." Luke 24:49 (Acts 1:8).
How long did Jesus promise to be with those who preach the gospel?
“Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with
you alway, even unto the end of the world." Matt. 28:20.