Chapter 92
The "Sign" of Loyalty
=====================

Against what does the third angel warn men? Against the worship of the beast,
and the reception of his mark. Rev. 14:9, 10.
How many will worship the beast? Nearly the whole world. Rev. 13:8.
What will those be doing who are not worshipers of the beast?” Here is the
patience of the saints: here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of
Jesus." Rev. 14:12.
Where are the faithful ones finally found? “And I saw as it were a sea of glass
mingled with fire: and them that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image,
and over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of glass, having the
harps of God. " Rev. 15:2.
What do they have on their foreheads? “And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on
the mount Zion, and with Him a hundred forty and four thousand, having His Father's
name written in their foreheads." Rev. 14:1.
How many were sealed? “And I hear the number of them which were sealed; and
there were sealed a hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of
Israel." Rev. 7:4.
With what were they sealed?” And I saw another angel ascending from the east,
having the seal of the living God." Rev. 7:2.
Where were they sealed? “Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we
have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads." Rev. 7:3.
What does the Bible present as the object of a sign, or seal? “Now, O king,
establish the decree, and sign the writing, that it be not changed." Dan. 6:8.
With what is God's seal connected? “Bind up the testimony, seal the law among
My disciples." Isa. 8:16.
Does the first commandment show who is its author? “Thou shalt have no other
gods before Me." Ex. 20:3.
NOTE. - Who the "Me" here spoken of is, the commandment does not state. That prohibition might
come from almost any source. Any heathen could claim it as a command from his god, and so far as
commandment itself goes, no one could disprove His claim.
Does the third commandment show who is the author of the law? “Thou shalt
not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that
taketh His name in vain." Ex. 20:7.
Which commandment does point out unmistakably the Author of the law, and
show His right to command? “But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: in
it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy
maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates; for in six days the Lord
made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day;
wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it." Ex. 20:10, 11.
For what purpose is the Sabbath a sign? “Moreover also I gave them My
Sabbaths, to be a sign between Me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord that
sanctify them." Eze. 20:12.
NOTE. - Every time the weekly Sabbath came round, their minds would revert to the commandment
which enjoined its observance, and the reason for it. As often as this occurred, they would call to mind the
creative power of God. And as long as they should do this, they could never forget God, or become idolaters.
Had the Sabbath been faithfully kept by all from the first, there could never have been an idolater, because
God would have been remembered weekly.
How is this remnant church distinguished, while waiting for the Lord to
appear on the white cloud? “Here is the patience of the saints; here are they that keep the
commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus." Rev. 14:21.
What will be the feeling toward them? “And the dragon was wroth with the
woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the
commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ." Rev. 12:17.
After enduring the struggle, how will they appear before God? “And in their
mouth was found no guile; for they are without fault before the throne of God." Rev. 14:5.
What will be the nature of the song they sing? “And they sung as it were a new
song before the throne, ...and no man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and
four thousand, which were redeemed from the earth." Rev. 14:3.
Over what had these gotten the victory? “And them that had gotten the victory
over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark, and over the number of his name,
stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God. And they sing the song of Moses the
servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are Thy works,
Lord God Almighty; just and true are Thy ways, Thou King of saints." Rev. 15:2, 3.
THE LAW OF GOD
I Thou shalt have no other gods before Me.
II Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that
is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them, for I the Lord thy God am a
jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth
generation of them that hate Me; and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love Me,
and keep My commandments.
III Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not
hold him guiltless that taketh His name in vain.
IV Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all
thy work; but the Seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any
work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maid. servant nor thy
cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and
earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the Seventh day: Wherefore the Lord
blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it.
V Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which
the Lord thy God giveth thee.
VI Thou shalt not kill.
VII Thou shalt not commit adultery.
VIII Thou shalt not steal.
IX Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.
X Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house; thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's
wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is
thy neighbor's.
Exodus 20:3-17.
THE LAW OF GOD AS CHANGED BY MAN
I I am the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not have strange gods before me.
[The Second Commandment has been left out]
II [actually III]Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain.
III [actually IV]Remember that thou keep holy the Sabbath day.[The Sabbath
Commandment has been changed]
IV [actually V]Honor thy father and thy mother.
V [actually VI]Thou shalt not kill.
VI [actually VII]Thou shalt not commit adultery.
VII [actually VIII]Thou shalt not steal.
VIII [actually IX]Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor .
IX [actually X - First Part]Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife.
X [actually X - Second Part]Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's goods.
The General Catholic Catechism.
THE LAW OF GOD IN THE NEW TESTAMENT
I "Thou shalt worship the lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve." Matthew
4:10.
II "Little children, keep yourselves from idols." "Forasmuch then as we are the
offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or
stone, graven by art and man's device." 1 John 5:21; Acts 17:29.
III "That the name of God and His doctrine be not blasphemed." 1 Timothy 6:1.
IV "Pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day." "The
Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath: therefore the Son of man is lord
also of the Sabbath." "For He spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, And
God did rest the seventh day from all His works." "There remaineth therefore a keeping of
a Sabbath to the people of God. For he that is entered into His rest, he also hath ceased from
his own works, as God did from His." "For by Him were all things created that are in
heaven, and that are in earth." Matthew 24:20; Mark 2:27, 28; Hebrews 4:4, 9, 10;
Colossians 1:16.
V "Honor thy father and thy mother." Matthew 19:19.
VI "Thou shalt not kill." Romans 13:9.
VII "Thou shalt not commit adultery." Matthew 19:18.
VIII "Thou shalt not steal." Romans 13:9.
IX "Thou shalt not bear false witness." Romans 13:9.
X "Thou shalt not covet." Romans 7:7.
CATHOLICISM SPEAKS
"Sunday is a Catholic institution, and its claims to observance can be defended only
on Catholic principles... From beginning to end of scripture there is not a single passage
that warrants the transfer of weekly public worship from the last day of the week to the
first." Catholic Press, Sydney, Australia, August, 1900.
"Protestantism, in discarding the authority of the [Roman Catholic] Church, has no
good reasons for its Sunday theory, and ought logically to keep Saturday as the Sabbath."
John Gilmary Shea, in the American Catholic Quarterly Review," January 1883.
"It is well to remind the Presbyterians, Baptists, Methodists, and all other
Christians, that the Bible does not support them anywhere in their observance of Sunday.
Sunday is an institution of the Roman Catholic Church, and those who observe the day
observe a commandment of the Catholic Church." Priest Brady, in an address, reported in
the Elizabeth, N.J. "News" of March 18, 1903.
"Reason and common sense demand the acceptance of one or the other of these
alternatives: either Protestantism and the keeping holy of Saturday, or Catholicity and the
keeping holy of Sunday. Compromise is impossible." "The Catholic Mirror," December
23, 1893.
"God simply gave His [Catholic] Church the power to set aside whatever day or
days, she would deem suitable as Holy Days. The Church chose Sunday, the first day of the
week, and in the course of time added other days, as holy days." Vincent J. Kelly,
"Forbidden Sunday and Feast-Day Occupations," p. 2.
"Protestants... accept Sunday rather than Saturday as the day for public worship
after the Catholic Church made the change... But the Protestant mind does not seem to
realize that In accepting the Bible, in observing the Sunday, they are accepting the
authority of the spokesman for the church, the Pope." "Our Sunday Visitor," February 5,
1950.
"Question. - Have you any other way of proving that the [Catholic] Church has
power to institute festivals of precept? “Answer. - Had she not such power... she could not
have substituted the observance of Sunday, the first day of the week for Saturday, the
seventh day, a change for which there is no scriptural authority." Doctrinal Catechism, p.
174.
PROTESTANTISM SPEAKS
Baptist: "There was and is a command to keep holy the Sabbath day, but that
Sabbath day was not Sunday. It will however be readily said, and with some show of
triumph, that the Sabbath was transferred from the seventh to the first day of the week, with
all its duties, privileges and sanctions. Earnestly desiring information on this subject,
which I have studied for many years, I ask, where can the record of such a transaction be
found? Not in the New Testament, absolutely not. There is no scriptural evidence of the
change of the Sabbath institution from the seventh to the first day of the week." Dr. E. T.
Hiscox, author of the "Baptist Manual."
Congregationalist: "It is quite clear that however rigidly or devotedly we may
spend Sunday, we are not keeping the Sabbath... The Sabbath was founded on a specific,
divine command. We can plead no such command for the observance of Sunday... There is
not a single line in the New Testament to suggest that we incur any penalty by violating the
supposed sanctity of Sunday." Dr. R.W. Dale, "The Ten Commandments," p. 706-707.
Lutheran Free Church: "For when there could not be produced one solitary place
in the Holy Scriptures which testified that either the Lord Himself or the apostles had
ordered such a transfer of the Sabbath to Sunday, then it was not easy to answer the
question: Who has transferred the Sabbath, and who has had the right to do it?" George
Sverdrup, "New Day."
Protestant Episcopal: "The day is now changed from the seventh to the first day...
but as we meet with no Scriptural direction for the change, we may conclude it was done by
the authority of the church." "Explanation of Catechism."
Baptist: "The Scriptures nowhere call the first day of the week the Sabbath... There
is no Scriptural authority for so doing, nor of course, any Scriptural obligation." "The
Watchman."
Presbyterian: "There is no word, no hint in the New Testament about abstaining
from work on Sunday. The observance of Ash Wednesday, or Lent, stands exactly on the
same footing as the observance of Sunday. Into the rest of Sunday no Divine Law enters."
Canon Eyton, in "The Ten Commandments."
Anglican: "And where are we told in the Scriptures that we are to keep the first day
at all? We are commanded to keep the seventh; but we are nowhere commanded to keep the
first day." Isaac Williams, "Plain Sermons on the Catechism," pp. 334, 336.
Methodist: "It is true that there is no positive command for infant baptism. Nor is
there any for keeping holy the first day of the week. Many believe that Christ changed the
Sabbath. But, from His own words, we see that He came for no such purpose. Those who
believe that Jesus changed the Sabbath base it only on a supposition." Amos Binney,
"Theological Compendium," pp. 180-181.
Episcopalian: "We have made the change from the seventh day to the first day,
from Saturday to Sunday, on the authority of the one holy, catholic, apostolic church of
Christ." Bishop Seymour, "Why We Keep Sunday. "
Southern Baptist: "The sacred name of the Seventh day is Sabbath. This fact is too
clear to require argument [Exodus 20:10 quoted]... On this point the plain teaching of the
Word has been admitted in all ages... Not once did the disciples apply the Sabbath law to
the first day of the week, that folly was left for a later age, nor did they pretend that the first
day supplanted the seventh." Joseph Judson Taylor, 'The Sabbatic Question," pp. 14-17,
41.
American Congregationalist: "The current notion that Christ and His apostles
authoritatively substituted the first day for the seventh, is absolutely without any authority
in the New Testament." Dr. Lyman Abbot, in the "Christian Union," June 26, 1890.
Christian Church: "Now there is no testimony in all the oracles of heaven that the
Sabbath is changed, or that the Lord's Day came in the room of it." Alexander Campbell, in
"The Reporter," October 8, 1921.
Disciples of Christ: "There is no direct Scriptural authority for designating the first
day 'the Lord's Day." Dr. D. H. Lucas, in the "Christian Oracle," January 23, 1890.
Baptist: "To me it seems unaccountable that Jesus, during three years' discussion
with His disciples, often conversing with upon the Sabbath question, discussing it in some
of its various aspects, freeing it from its false [Jewish traditional] glosses, never alluded to
any transference of the day; also, that during the forty days of His resurrection life, no such
thing was intimated. Nor, so far as we know, did the Spirit, which was given to bring to
their remembrance all things whatsoever that He had said unto them, deal with this
question. Nor yet did the inspired apostles, in preaching the gospel, founding churches,
counseling and instructing those founded, discuss or approach the subject. “Of course I
quite well know that Sunday did come into use in early Christian history as a religious day,
as we learn from the Christian Fathers and other sources. But what a pity that it comes
branded with the mark of Paganism, and christened with the name of the sun-god, then
adopted and sanctified by the Papal apostasy, and bequeathed as a sacred legacy to
Protestantism." Dr. E. T. Hiscox, report of his sermon at the Baptist Minister's Convention,
in "New York Examiner," November 16, 1893.
Sunday sacredness is not commanded or practiced in the Bible.