Chapter 121
Walking in the Light
====================

Does the Lord consider it important that His children walk in the light? “Walk
while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you; for he that walketh in darkness
knoweth not whither he goeth." John 12:35.
What must one do to obtain the benefits of the blood of Christ? “But if we walk
in the light, as He is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of
Jesus Christ His Son cleanseth us from all sin." 1 John 1:7.
How long may the just expect light to shine on his pathway? “But the path of
the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day." Prov. 4:18.
For whom is the light sown? “Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the
upright in heart." Ps. 97:11.
What will become of the light which a person has if he fails to improve by it?
“The light of the body is the eye; therefore when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is
full of light; but when thine eye is evil, thy body also is full of darkness. Take heed,
therefore, that the light which is in thee be not darkness." Luke 11:34, 35.
Why are those condemned who do not come to the light? “And this is the
condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light,
because their deeds were evil." John 3:19.
If one is really seeking for truth, what will he do? “But he that doeth truth
cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God."
John 3:21.
What will those who reject light and truth, be finally led to believe? “And for
this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie; that they all
might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness." 2
Thess. 2:11, 12.
From what source does one derive light? "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a
light unto my path." Ps. 119:105, 130 (Prov. 6:23).
Who was told by an angel of God that his way pleased the Lord? “He saw in a
vision evidently about the ninth hour of the day, an angel of God coming in to him, and
saying unto him, Cornelius. And when he looked on him, he was afraid, and said, What is
it, Lord? And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms are come up for a memorial
before God." Acts 10:3, 4.
Did the angel then tell him that he had nothing more to learn or do, in order to
be saved? “And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whose surname is Peter:
he lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea-side: he shall tell thee what
thou oughtest to do." Acts 10:5, 6.
In what are we exhorted to continue? “For we are made partakers of Christ, if we
hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast unto the end." Heb. 3:14 (Matt.10:22).
Among those that hear the prophecies of Revelation, who are to have a
blessing from God? “Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this
prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein." Rev. 1:3.
Is there an example of God's overthrowing people whom He once favored,
because they refused to obey Him? “I will therefore put you in remembrance, though ye
once knew this, how that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt,
afterward destroyed them that believed not." Jude 5.