Chapter 132
The Grace of Humility
=====================

How does God look upon pride? “The fear of the Lord is to hate evil: pride, and
arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate." Prov. 8:13.
How does pride in the heart operate on the possessor? “The pride of thine heart
hath deceived thee, thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high:
that saith in his heart, Who shall bring me down to the ground?" Obad. 3.
In what way were the proud Pharisees deceived? “And He said unto them, Ye
are they which justify yourselves before men," but God knoweth your hearts: for that which
is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God." Luke 16:15.
What does the Saviour say of those who exalt themselves through their pride
of heart? “For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself
shall be exalted." Luke 14:11.
What did He say to those disciples of His whom He found disputing as to who
should be greatest among them? “And He sat down, and called the twelve, and saith unto
them, If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant of all." Mark
9:35.
In what way did He illustrate true humility to His disciples? “And Jesus called
a little child unto Him, and set him in the midst of them, and said... Whosoever therefore
shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven."
Matt. 18:2, 3.
Among all those who profess to love the Lord, toward whom will He favorably
look? “To this man will I look, even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and
trembleth at My word." Isa. 66:2.
With whom will the Lord dwell? “I dwell in the high and holy place, with him
also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive
the heart of the contrite ones." Isa. 57:15.
While thus honoring the humble, what course will He take with the proud?
“But He giveth more grace. Wherefore He saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace
unto the humble." James 4:6.
What will the Lord do for him who humbles himself? “Humble yourselves
therefore under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you in due time." 1 Peter 5:6.
In the time of man's final exaltation (1 Thess. 4:16, 17) what will befall the
proud and lofty? “For the day of the Lord of hosts shall be upon every one that is proud
and lofty, and upon everyone that is lifted up; and he shall be brought low." Isa. 2:12.
Who alone will then be exalted? “And the loftiness of man shall be bowed down,
and the haughtiness of men shall be made low; and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that
day." Isa. 2:17.