Chapter 160
Hypocrisy
===========

What was the leaven of the Pharisees?
"Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy." Luke 12:1.
In what way did the Pharisees show themselves to be hypocrites?
"Ye hypocrites well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying This people draweth nigh
unto Me with their mouth, and honoreth Me with their lips; but their heart is far from Me."
Matt. 15:7, 8.
How had the Saviour shown that their hearts were not with the Lord?
"For God commanded, saying, Honor thy father and mother... But ye say,
Whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, It is a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be
profited by me; and honor not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made
the commandment of God of hone effect by your tradition." Matt. 15:4-6.
NOTE. In other words, these people claimed to be God’s servants, but changed the commandments
of God to their liking, and thus destroyed their force upon the heart and life. Their hypocrisy made them do it.
What other sign of insincerity did they manifest?
"And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are; for they love to
pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of
men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward." Matt. 6:5.
What did Christ call those who so readily saw the faults of others, but did not
correct their own?
"Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou
see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye." Matt. 7:5.
What is the real work of a hypocrite?
"A hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbor." Prov. 11:9.
What eminent man was once nearly sacrificed by the dissimulations (really
hypocrisy) of some Jews and one of the apostles?
"And the other Jews dissembled likewise with him [Peter]; insomuch that Barnabas
also was carried away with their dissimulation." Gal. 2:13.
NOTE. Ignorance is not hypocrisy. One can only be a hypocrite when acting something he knows he
is not.
Why did Paul say he opposed Peter in the work he was doing at that time?
"But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the face, because he was
to be blamed." Gal. 2:11.
What will become of the hypocrite's hope?
"So are the paths of all that forget God; and the hypocrite's hope shall perish." Job
8:13.
What did David say he would not do?
"I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with dissemblers." Ps. 26:4.
NOTE. Dissemblers and hypocrites are the same.
If one has true heavenly wisdom, what kind of fruits will he bear?
"But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to
be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy."
James 3:17
Where does the Saviour class those who profess to believe in the lord's
coming, and yet by their actions show that their hearts are not in the matter?
"And shall cut him asunder, and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites, there
shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." Matt. 24:51.