Chapter 140
Chapter 140
===========

Meditation and Prayer
With what adversary does man have to contend? “Be sober, be vigilant; because
your adversary the Devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour."
1 Peter 5:8.
When is a man tempted? “But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of
his own lust, and enticed." James 1:14.
Is there still another obstacle to man's spiritual advancement? “Love not the
world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the
Father is not in him." 1 John 2:15.
Can anyone overcome these enemies in his own strength alone? “I am the vine,
ye are the branches. He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit;
for without Me ye can do nothing." John 15:5.
What is required on our part if we are kept from our foes? “Watch and pray,
that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak." Matt.
26:41.
How much should we pray? “Pray without ceasing." 1 Thess. 5:17.
On what occasions did David receive strength and encouragement? “When I
remember Thee upon my bed, and meditate on Thee in the night watches." Ps. 63:6.
What did he say of the man who was truly blessed? “His delight is in the law of
the Lord; and in His law doth he meditate day and night." Ps. 1:2.
Will such a condition of mind be distasteful to one who really loves God? “My
meditation of Him shall be sweet." Ps. 104:34.
How long ought one to continue in this constant devotion? “Rejoice evermore.
Pray without ceasing." 1 Thess. 5:16, 17.
What is the special duty of those who live in the time when the Lord's coming
is expected? “Take ye heed, watch and pray: for ye know not when the time is... Watch ye
therefore: for ye know not when the master of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or
at the cockcrowing, or in the morning: lest coming suddenly He find you sleeping. And
what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch." Mark 13:33-37.
As the Lord's coming draws near, what will make the duty of prayer and
watchfulness more imperative? “Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the
devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath hut a
short time." Rev. 12:12.
Can we at that time have all the help we desire to withstand our enemies?
“Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in My name, He will
give it you." John 16:23.
If help does not come when it is first asked, what should one do? “And shall not
God avenge His own elect, which cry day and night unto Him, though He bear long with
them? I tell you that He will avenge them speedily." Luke 18:7, 8. "Wait on the Lord: be of
good courage, and He shall strengthen thine heart: wait, I say, on the Lord." Ps. 27:14.
What promise is vouchsafed to those who are found watching when the Lord
comes? “Blessed are those servants, whom the Lord when He cometh shall find watching:
verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and make them to sit down to meat, and
will come forth and serve them." Luke 12:37.