Chapter 79
Law and Gospel
==============

Of what did Paul say he was not ashamed? “For I am not ashamed of the gospel
of Christ; for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth." Rom. 1:16.
What good tidings did the angels announce to the shepherds? “Behold, I bring
you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people; for unto you is born this day in
the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord." Luke 2:10, 11.
What did Simeon say after seeing the Saviour? "And Simeon blessed them, and
said unto Mary His mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in
Israel." Luke 2:34.
To whom did Anna the prophetess speak of the Saviour? "And she coming in
that instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of Him to all them that looked
for redemption in Jerusalem." Luke 2:38.
In his pre-announcement of Christ's birth and name, what did the angel say
Christ should do?” And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call His flame Jesus
[Saviour]; for He shall save His people from their sins." Matt. 1:21.
On what condition was He to save them? “For God so loved the world, that He
gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have
everlasting life." John 3:16.
Christ saves believers from their sins under the Christian dispensation; but
does His blood atone for sins committed in the old dispensation? “And for this cause
He is the mediator of the new testament, that by means of death, for the redemption of the
transgressions that were under the first testament, they which are called might receive the
promise of eternal inheritance." Heb. 9:15.
NOTE. - The blood of Christ availed for believers the same in the old dispensation as it does in the
new. The first promise made to man, that the seed of the woman should bruise the serpent's head, was as
verily the gospel of Jesus Christ as was the song the angels sung over the plains of Bethlehem, to the
shepherds, as they watched their flocks by night, "Glory to God in the highest, peace on earth, good will to
men."
How did Abel show his faith in the coming Saviour? "By faith Abel offered unto
God a more excellent Sacrifice than Cain." Heb. 11:4.
What did the ceremonial law of the Jews contain? “For the law having a shadow
of good things to come." Heb. 10:1.
What were these "good things to come" which this law foreshadowed? “But
Christ being come a High Priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect
tabernacle." Heb. 9:11.
Did those of the patriarchal age have a knowledge of sin? “Then Abimelech
called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou done unto us? and what have I offended
thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? Thou hast done deeds
unto me that ought not to be done." Gen. 20:9 (Gen. 4:7) (Gen. 13:13).
By what means must they have gained that knowledge? “By the law is the
knowledge of sin." "I had not known sin, but by the law." Rom. 3:20; 7:7.
Was there a priesthood in the days of Abraham, to minister for the sins of the
people? “For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met
Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him." Heb. 7:1.
And was the gospel preached to Abraham?” And the Scripture, foreseeing that
God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham."
Gal. 3:8.
NOTE. - We have learned from the foregoing scriptures that from the earliest age men were
convinced of sin, and that their knowledge of their sinful condition could be learned in no other way than by
a moral rule, even God's law. They also had a ministering priesthood, to point them to Christ, which was the
good news, or gospel, that gave them hope in a coming Messiah actually to take away their sins. When Christ
came, He died for the transgressions which had been committed in the old dispensation, just the same as He
did for those which would be committed under the new.
But when Christ came, did He expect to put away the law of God in order to
save men? “Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets: I am not come to
destroy, but to fulfill." Matt. 5:17.
NOTE. - He came to fulfill the law; that is, to carry out its design. The law was ordained to life.
(Rom. 7:10.) Had man never broken the law, he would not have been a sinner, and would therefore, from the
first, have lived eternally. Now Christ fulfills it, or carries its design into effect, that is, gives life to the
believer in Him. Had man never transgressed the law, he would not have needed Christ; if the law could have
been done away, after man had broken it, he would not then have needed Christ; for it is the law, and that
only, which condemns him to death. Take away the instrument of death, and man would live. Christ could not
abate a jot of that law; for His mission was to make an atonement before the law, in behalf of the sinner.
How much of the law did Christ say should remain in force?” For verily I say
unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law,
till all be fulfilled." Matt. 5:18.
Then if we have faith in Christ and the gospel, how does that affect the law?
“Do we then make void the law through faith? God for- bid: yea, we establish the law."
Rom. 3:31.
How many lawgivers are there?” There is one Lawgiver, who is able to save and
to destroy." James 4:12.
What part does Christ act in behalf of the sinner? “If any man sin, we have an
advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous." 1 John 2:1.
In the closing message to the world, how are the law and the gospel
associated?
"Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus." Rev.
14:12.
NOTE. - There is no salvation in the law. There is no redeeming quality in law. Redemption is
through the blood of Christ. The sinner may cease to break the commandments of God, and strive with all his
powers to keep them; but this will not atone for his sins, and redeem him from his present condition in
consequence of past transgression... The hope of eternal salvation hangs upon Christ. Adam hung his hope
there. Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, and the believing Jews hung theirs there. We can do no more, the hope
of the next life depends upon Christ. Faith in His blood can alone free us from our transgressions. And a life
of obedience to the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus will be a sufficient passport through the
golden gates of the city of God.