Chapter 9
Attributes of God
=================

What attributes did Christ ascribe to His Father while addressing Him just
before His trial in Gethsemane?
"And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee.
Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may
be one, as we are." "O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known
thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me." John 17:11,25.
Does Christ possess these attributes?
"Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One
to see corruption." Acts 2:27. "He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied:
by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many; for he shall bear their
iniquities." Isaiah 53:11.
What is said about the goodness of God?
"And the LORD passed by before him, and proclaimed, The LORD, The LORD
God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abundant in goodness and truth." Exodus
34:6.
What was the nature of Christ's work while among men?
"How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: who
went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with
him." Acts 10:38.
What is said of the mercy of God?
"The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy."
Psalms 103:8.
Is He compassionate?
"But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious, longsuffering, and
plenteous in mercy and truth." Psalms 86:15.
How did Moses represent God's faithfulness in keeping covenant with his
people?
"Know therefore that the LORD thy God, he is God, the faithful God, which
keepeth covenant and mercy with them that love him and keep his commandments to a
thousand generations." Deuteronomy 7:9.
Is Christ also the embodiment of truth?
"Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the
Father, but by me." John 14:6.
How is the wisdom of God represented?
"Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: he is mighty in strength and
wisdom." Job 36:5.
What is said of the wisdom of Christ?
"And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom; and the grace
of God was upon him." Luke 2:40.
In what strong language is the perfect justice of God proclaimed?
"He is the Rock, his work is perfect; for all his ways are judgment: a God of truth
and without iniquity, just and right is he." Deuteronomy 32:4.
How long will these attributes exist?
"Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens are the work of
thy hands. They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them shall wax old like a
garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: But thou art the
same, and thy years shall have no end." Psalms 102:25-27.
Can man ever really find out God?
"O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God: how
unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out!" Romans 11:33.