Chapter 62
Manner of Christ's Coming
=========================

What promise is made to those who look for the appearing of Christ? “So
Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for Him shall He
appear the second time without sin unto salvation." Heb. 9:28.
How many will receive a reward when He comes? “For the Son of man shall
come in the glory of His Father with His angels; and then He shall reward every man
according to his works." Matt. 16:27.
Did the disciples think that death would be the second coming of Christ?
“Peter seeing him [John] saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do? Jesus saith unto
him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou Me. Then went this
saying abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto
him, he shall not die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?" John
21:21-23.
If death is not the coming of Christ, how will He come? “And when He had
spoken these things, while they beheld, He was taken up; and a cloud received Him out of
their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as He went up, behold, two
men stood by them in white apparel; which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye
gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so
come in like manner as ye have seen Him go into heaven." Acts 1:9-11 (Rev. 14:14).
How many will behold Him when He comes? “Behold, He cometh with clouds;
and every eye shall see Him, and they also which pierced Him." Rev. 1:7.
What wonderful demonstration will accompany the Lord's coming?” The
Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and
with the trump of God." 1 Thess. 4:16.
What will then take place? “We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in
a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump; for the trumpet shall sound, and the
dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed." 1 Cor. 15:51, 52. (1 Thess.
4:16-17).
Have not the martyrs of old gone to their reward? “And these all, having
obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise, God having provided some
better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect." Heb. 11:39, 40.
When were the disciples to be recompensed? “For thou shalt be recompensed at
the resurrection of the just." Luke 14:14.
How is this to be brought about? “If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come
again, and receive you unto Myself." John 14:3.
What was Enoch's belief about this event? “And Enoch also, the seventh from
Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousand of His
saints, to execute judgment upon all." Jude 14-15.
What was Job's hope when in the depths of affliction? “For I know that my
Redeemer liveth, and that He shall stand at the latter day upon the earth, And though after
my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God; whom I shall see for
myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another." Job 19:25-27.
How did David express himself on this point? “For He cometh, for He cometh to
judge the earth; He shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people with His
truth." Ps. 96:13.
Did Daniel teach this same sentiment? “And at that time shall Michael stand up,
the great prince which standeth for the children of thy people;... and at that time thy people
shall be delivered everyone that shall be found written in the book." Dan. 12:1.
In what splendor will the Saviour come? “For whosoever shall be ashamed of
Me and of My words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when He shall come in His
own glory, and in His Father's, and of the holy angels." Luke 9:26.
When Christ, at the transfiguration, represented His future glory, how did He
appear? “And was transfigured before them; and His face did shine as the sun, and His
raiment was white as the light." Matt 17:2.
What is the appearance of an angel? “His body also was like the beryl, and his
face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet
like in color to polished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude."
Dan. 10:6.
What is the appearance of the glory of God Himself?” And from the appearance
of His loins even downward, I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and it had brightness
round about. As the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the
appearance of the brightness round about. This was the appearance of the likeness of the
glory of the Lord." Eze. 1:27, 28.
For what was Paul waiting when in his Roman dungeon? “Henceforth there is
laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me
at that day; and not to me only, but unto all them also that love His appearing." 2 Tim. 4:8.
How will the Saviour be seen of those who are finally permitted to behold
Him? “But we know that, when He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him
as He is." 1 John 3:2.
What description does the beloved John give of His appearance? “His eyes
were as a flame of fire; and His feet like unto fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace; and
His voice as the sound of many waters... And His countenance was as the sun shineth in his
strength." Rev. 1:14-16.
When He shall have gathered together His elect (Matt. 24:31), if we are among
them, what shall we hear from the Saviour? "Then shall the King say unto them on His
right hand, Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the
foundation of the world." Matt. 25:34.