Chapter 150
Free-Will Offerings
===================

How does God regard the covetous man?
"For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the covetous, whom the
Lord abhorreth." Ps. 10:3.
What kind of men does God require to occupy responsible positions in His
work?
"Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men
of truth, hating covetousness; and place such over them, to be rulers of thousands, and
rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens." Ex. 18:21.
What warning does the Saviour give against covetousness?
"And he said unto them, Take heed, and beware of covetousness; for a man's life
consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth." Luke 12:15.
How did God regard the rich man who laid up his goods for his own ease?
"But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee; then
whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided?" Luke 12:20.
What does Christ say of those who do as the man in the parable?
"So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God." Luke
12:21.
How much can one carry out of the world?
"For we brought nothing into this world, and its is certain we can carry nothing
out." Deut. 8:18.
Who gives man power to get wealth?
"But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God; for it is He that giveth thee power to
get wealth." Deut. 8:18.
What is said concerning those who trust in their riches?
"He that trusteth in his riches shall fall." Prov. 11:28.
What charge was Timothy required to give the rich?
"Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, nor trust in
uncertain riches, but in the living God." 1 Tim. 6:17.
What ought they to do with their means?
"That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to
communicate." 1 Tim. 6:18.
What will they thus do for themselves?
"Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that
they may lay hold on eternal life." 1 Tim. 6:19.
By giving of one's substance to the Lord's work, what does he thus do?
"Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the first fruits of all thine increase."
Prov. 3:9.
How does the Lord look upon the spirit of giving to the cause?
"For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love, which ye have
showed toward His name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister." Heb.
6:10.
If a person has but little of this world's goods, is he not excused from giving?
"Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the Lord thy God
which He hath given thee." Deut. 16:17.
Then can it be the amount a man gives that is so acceptable to God?
"For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and
not according to that he hath not." 2 Cor. 8:12.
What does one provide for himself who gives freely to the cause of God?
"Sell that ye have, and give alms; provide yourselves bags which wax not old, a
treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where no thief approacheth, neither moth
corrupteth." Luke 12:33.
If one's treasure has been transferred to heaven by giving to God's cause,
where will his heart be?
"For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also." Luke 12:34.
NOTE.-"Instead of burdening themselves in endeavors to accumulate wealth, Christ's disciples
ought, when properly called to it, to part with their possessions, and distribute to their needy brethren. When
this is done in faith and love, it insures to them a treasure, of which God Himself is the guardian. In this
manner they are secured from putting their 'money into a bag with holes,' or into one liable to wear out; ..for
their treasure is laid up in heaven, out of the reach of change or danger; and their hearts also become more and
more heavenly."- Scott on Luke 12:34.