Chapter 11
The Divinity of Christ
======================

Is Christ set forth as a divine being in Holy Writ?
"But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of
righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated
iniquity; therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy
fellows." Hebrews 1:8,9.
Did Christ exist before He was manifested in the flesh?
"And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had
with thee before the world was." John 17:5.
By what agency was His incarnation effected?
"And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee,
and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which
shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God." Luke 1:35.
Did His incarnation annul His divinity?
"And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifest in
the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in
the world, received up into glory." 1 Timothy 3:16.
How does Christ Himself speak of His relation to the Father?
"I and My Father are one." John 10:30.
How does He show what He means by being "one with the Father?
"And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee.
Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may
be one, as we are." John 17:11.
NOTE: One in purpose, spirit, work etc.; and the same is true of those who have truly learned of
Christ.
How was He manifested on the earth as a Saviour?
"And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of
great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a
Saviour, which is Christ the Lord." Luke 2:10,11. "And the Word was made flesh, and
dwelt among us (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father),
full of grace and truth." John 1:14.
Why was He thus made known?
"Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he
might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make
reconciliation for the sins of the people." Hebrews 2:17.
How was He recognized by the Father while here?
"And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well
pleased." Matthew 3:17.
How was the divinity of the Son of God shown?
1. In His creative power. “Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and
hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son: In whom we have redemption through
his blood, even the forgiveness of sins: Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn
of every creature: For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in
earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or
powers: all things were created by him, and for him:" Colossians 1:13-16 "In the beginning
was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the
beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing
made that was made." John 1:1-3.
2. By His power to perform miracles. “And when he thus had spoken, he cried with
a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot
with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them,
Loose him, and let him go." John 11:43,44.
3. By His right to lay down His life and take it up again. “Therefore doth my Father
love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again." John 10:17.
4. By His being recognized as God. “And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his
angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire. But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O
God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom."
Hebrews 1:7,8. "For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government
shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The
mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace." Isaiah 9:6.
5. By what He endured for a race of rebels. “Yet it pleased the LORD to bruise him;
he hath put him to grief: when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his
seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the LORD shall prosper in his hand. He
shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied: by his knowledge shall my
righteous servant justify many; for he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore will I divide him
a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he hath
poured out his soul unto death: and he was numbered with the transgressors; and he bare
the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors." Isaiah 53:10-12.
How does Paul speak of Christ's relation to the Father?
"For in him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily." Colossians 2:9.
What is our privilege in view of what this precious Saviour has done?
"For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our
infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore
come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in
time of need." Hebrews 4:15,16.