Chapter 29
Importance of Sound Doctrine
============================

Does it make any difference what a man believes, if he is only sincere? “God
hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and
belief of the truth." 2 Thess. 2:13 (Joshua 24:14).
How may we determine the truthfulness of any doctrine? “Prove all things,"
hold fast that which is good." 1 Thess. 5:21 (Isa. 8:20).
Upon what foundation should every religious tenet rest? “And are built upon
the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief corner
stone." Eph. 2:20 (1 Cor. 3:11).
What is mentioned first in the list of those things for which all Scripture is
profitable? “All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine." 2
Tim. 3:16.
What advice is given to Timothy while preparing for the gospel ministry? “Till
I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine." "Take heed unto thyself,
and unto the doctrine; continue in them." 1 Tim. 4:13, 16.
What remarkable charge is given him relative to his public work? “I charge
thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the
dead at His appearing and His kingdom, preach the word; be instant in season, out of
season; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine." 2 Tim. 4:1, 2.
Why is this duty so imperative? “For the time will come when they will not
endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers,
having itching ears; and they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned
unto fables." 2 Tim. 4:3, 4.
How was Titus instructed to teach? And in what was he to be a pattern? “But
speak thou the things which become sound doctrine." "In all things showing thyself a
pattern of good works; in doctrine showing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity." Titus 2:1, 7.
What is the power of sound doctrine? “Holding fast the faithful word as he hath
been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the
gainsayers." Titus 1:9.
What danger attends false teaching? “Who concerning the truth have erred,
saying that the resurrection is past already; and overthrow the faith of some." 2 Tim. 2:18.
Who are the disciples of Jesus? And what gracious work is wrought for them?
“If ye continue in My word, then are ye My disciples indeed; and ye shall know the truth,
and the truth shall make you free." John 8:31, 32.
Through what are they to be sanctified? “Sanctify them through Thy truth: Thy
word is truth." John 17:17.
Will God accept the homage of such as deliberately teach contrary to His will?
“But in vain they do worship Me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men." Matt.
15:9.
Can we close our ears to the truth, and remain innocent? “He that turneth away
his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abomination." Prov. 28: 9.
What encouraging promise did our Saviour leave for those who should do the
will of God? “If any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of
God, or whether I speak of myself." John 7:17 (Ps. 25:9) (John 8:12).
What will be the fate of the spiritually blind teacher, and of those whom he
presumes to teach? “Let them alone: they be blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind
lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch." Matt. 15:14.
To whom will the gates of the heavenly city be opened? “Open ye the gates, that
the righteous nation which keepeth the truth may enter in." Isa. 26:2 (Rev. 22:14).