Chapter 172
Social Purity
=============

How much is included in the seventh commandment?
"Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit
adultery; but I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath
committed adultery with her already in his heart." Matt. 5:27, 28.
What are the people of God exhorted to omit?
"But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not be once named
among you, as becometh saints; neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which
are not convenient; but rather giving of thanks." Eph. 5:3, 4.
What does the apostle class this inclination?
"Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: Adultery, fornication,
uncleanness, lasciviousness." Gal. 5:19.
Of what will those who are guilty in this direction be deprived?
"I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit
the kingdom of God." Gal. 5:21.
If one professing godliness is known to be impure, what is our duty regarding
Him?
"But now I have written unto you not to keep company, if any man that is called a
brother be a fornicator." 1 Cor. 5:11.
If one received evil communications, how will they affect him?
"Be not deceived: evil communications corrupt good manners." 1 Cor. 15:33.
When a person allows corrupt thoughts to be sown in his heart, what may he
expect to reap?
"Be not deceived; God is not mocked; for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he
also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that
soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting." Gal. 6:7, 8.
What is even the thought of foolishness said to be?
"The thought of foolishness is sin." Prov. 24:9.
On what condition does God accept the sinner?
"Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him
return unto the Lord, and He will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for He will
abundantly pardon." Isa. 55:7.
Where should one's thoughts be held?
"And bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ." 2 Cor. 10:5.
Does God know the thoughts?
"Thou knowest my down sitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought
afar off." Ps. 139:2.
Then how should one treat him who indulges in low, impure conversation?
"And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove
them. For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret."
Eph. 5:11, 12.
In conversation, against what should one be strenuously guarded?
"Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good
to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers." Eph. 4:29.
What are the proper things to engage one's mind?
"Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest,
whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely,
whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think
on these things." Phil. 4:8.
NOTE. - To male and female alike this rule applies. All should avoid associating with those who
indulge in low, impure thoughts, as their presence and influence are alike contagious. One soon receives the
mold of a frequent companionship, whether the companion be good or bad. All should strive against the
reception of groveling, vulgar thoughts; for, as has been truthfully said, "no one can succeed long in keeping
himself from vicious acts whose thoughts dwell, without restraint, upon unchaste subjects. Purity of life
depends upon purity of mind; and the only way to secure the first is by the cultivation of the second. Incessant
mental occupation is the only safeguard against sin.
What is promised to the pure in heart?
"Blessed are the pure in heart; for they shall see God." Matt. 5:8.
NOTE.-By reading Gen. 6:1.13, it will be readily seen that social impurity was the chief cause of the
deluge. It was also the principal reason for the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. Gen. 19:1-11 God at one
time destroyed 24,000 of the Israelites because of their laxness in this respect. Num. 25:1-9. One notable case
is brought to view in the early Biblical record, which shows the reward of virtue. Joseph was sorely tempted
(Gen. 39:7-12); but he resisted his insidious tempter, though at the expense of his personal freedom. God
rewarded him, however (Gen. 41:38.44), by raising him to a place he never could have attained had he
yielded to the impure suggestions of his mistress. This should be a lesson to all, knowing that in the day of
judgment all will render an account, even of the secrets of their hearts. Eccl. 12:14.
From what source come our words?
"O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? for out of the
abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh." Matt. 12:34.
NOTE.-Great care should be exercised in the training of children's minds, as what is taken into
them, from whatever source, will be sure to bear its legitimate fruit in due time. On this point, the Rev. T. De
Witt Talmage has well said: "You may tear your coat or break a vase, and repair it again; but the point where
the rip or the fracture took place will always be evident. It takes less than an hour to do your heart a damage
which no time can entirely repair. Look carefully over your child's library; see what book it is that he reads
after he has gone to bed. Do not always take it for granted that a book is good because it is a Sunday-school
book. As far as possible, know who wrote it, who illustrated it, who published it, who sold it. It seems that in
the literature of the day, the ten plagues of Egypt have returned, and the frogs and the lice have hopped and
skipped over our parlor tables. Parents are delighted to have their children read, but they should be sure as to
what they read. You do not have to walk a day or two in an infected district to get the cholera or typhoid fever;
and one wave of moral unhealth will fever and blast the soul forever. Prehaps, knowing not what you did, you
read a bad book. Do you not remember it altogether?-Yes; and perhaps you will never get over it However
strong and exalted your character, never read a bad book. By the time you get through the first chapter, you
will see the drift. If you find the marks of the hoofs of the Devil in the picture, or in the style, of in the plot,
away with it. But there is more danger, I think, from many of the family papers, published once a week, in
those stories of vice and shame, full of infamous suggestions, going as far as they can without exposing
themselves to the clutch of the law. I name none of them; but say that on some fashionable tables there lie
'family newspapers' that are the very vomit of the pit."
Of what will all give account in the day of judgment?
"But I say unto you, That every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give
account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy
words thou shalt be condemned." Matt. 12:36, 37.
NOTE.-"Nothing can be more fatal to purity of life in either sex than the idea that a young man may
sow 'wild oats,' and still be a 'first-rate good fellow,' and worthy of positions of trust and responsibility in
society; and the fact that such a notion prevails, is further evidence of the lowered moral tone of society, to
which we have already referred. It will be a happy day to the cause of morality when society says to the young
man who lapses from virtue, as it does to the young woman under the same circumstances, 'You have
forfeited your right to honor and respect. You have violated one of the plainest laws of God and man. You
have become a social leper, and are likely to spread vile moral contagion more potent for evil than the venom
of a rattlesnake, or the contagious virus of small-pox or cholera. Hence, unless you repent and reform, and
earn a right to the confidence of the good and pure, you must be an outcast from society, subjected to a social
quarantine which will effectively prevent the contamination of your fellows.' "-J.H. Kellog, M.D., President
of American Health and Temperance Association, in address on Social Purity.
There has of late been some excellent work done toward staying the tide of social impurity. To this
end a society was organized in England, under the name of "White Cross Army." Soon afterward the
movement spread to America, and the Young Men's Christian Association of New. York effected an
organization, the object of which is, "The promotion of purity among young men, the elevation of public
opinion regarding the question of personal purity, and the maintenance of the same standard for men and
women." The same line of work has been taken up by the National Woman's Christian Temperance Union,
and that society now has a Social Purity Department. The American Health and Temperance Association has
also entered the field, to war against the frightful evil of social impurity, and to engage others in an effort to
save the young who are surrounded by so many strong temptations. The pledges herewith presented, are those
adopted by this association.
Section 17
Health and Temperance