Chapter 162
Envy and Jealousy
=================

Give Solomon's words concerning the over powering strength of envy.
"Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous; but who is able to stand before envy?"
Prov. 27:4.
What Scripture shows the exceeding cruelty of jealousy?
"Jealousy is cruel as the grave: the coals thereof are coals of fire, which hath a most
vehement flame." Song of Solomon 8:6.
What striking illustration do we find of this?
"Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one and slew his brother. And wherefore slew
he him? Because his own works were evil and his brother's righteous." 1 John 3:12.
Can a man be a murderer in spirit?
"Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer." 1 John 3:15.
Give other circumstances where men have been controlled by an envious
spirit, and state the result.
"And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt." Acts 7:9. "But
when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy, and spake against those
things which were spoken by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming." Acts 13:45.
What is the condition of things where envy reigns?
"For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work. " James
3:16.
What effect does envy have upon its possessor?
"For wrath killeth the foolish man, and envy slayeth the silly one." Job 5:2. "A
sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy, the rottenness of the bones." Prov. 14:30.
Show the persistency of those who are actuated by envy.
"Full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity, whisperers, ...who knowing the
judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the
same, but have pleasure in them that do them." Rom. 1:29-32.
How free from malice should the child of God be, even toward an enemy?
"Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not o thine heart be glad when he
stumbleth." Prov. 24:17. "But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you,
do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute
you." Matt. 5:44.
Will any be saved who retain the spirit of envy in the heart?
"Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like: of the which I tell you
before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit
the kingdom of God." Gal. 5:21.
Is this sentence just?
"But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which
commit such things." Rom. 2:2.
What is the fountain from which both good and evil spring?
"A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good;
and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil." Luke
6:45.
Then why should the heart be watched closely?
"Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life." Prov. 4:23.