Chapter 131
The Grace of Meekness
=====================

What class of persons will the Lord direct? “The meek will He guide in
judgment; and the meek will He teach His way." Ps. 25:9.
NOTE. - Meek.- "Mild of temper; not easily provoked or irritated; given to forbearance under
injuries; soft; gentle; yielding." - Webster.
Who could truly say he possessed this principle? “Take My yoke upon you, and
learn of Me; for I am meek and lowly in heart and ye shall find rest unto your souls." Matt.
11:29.
Who was the meekest man on earth before Christ came? “Now the man Moses
was very meek, above all the men which were upon the face of the earth." Num. 12:3.
Of whom was Moses a type? “I will raise them up a Prophet from among their
brethren, like unto thee, and will put My words in His mouth; and He shall speak unto them
all that I shall command Him." Deut. 18:18. compare with Acts 3:22-26.
Whom should we follow in this? “Come unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy
laden, and I will give you rest." Matt. 11:28.
How is one to receive the instruction he needs on this point? “Wherefore lay
apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted
word, which is able to save your souls." James 1:21.
When asked for a reason of our hope of heaven, how should we answer? “But
sanctify the Lord God in your hearts; and be ready always to give an answer to every man
that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you, with meekness and fear." 1 Peter 3:15.
Of what is meekness a fruit? “But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no
law." Gal. 5:22, 23.
If one really has the Spirit of God, what things will he look after? “For they that
are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh; but they that are after the Spirit, the things
of the Spirit." Rom. 8:5.
What is the evidence that we are Christ’s? “But ye are not in the flesh, but in the
Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of
Christ, he is none of His." Rom. 8:9.
If a brother is overcome by a fault, who only should undertake his restoration,
and in what way? “Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual,
restore such a one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted."
Gal. 6:1.
How should Christian women adorn themselves? “Whose adorning let it not he
that outward adorning of plaiting the hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of
apparel; but let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible, even the
ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price." 1 Peter
3:3, 4.
What will the Lord finally do for those who cultivate the spirit of meekness?
“For the Lord taketh pleasure in His people: He will beautify the meek with salvation." Ps.
149:4.
What will the meek inherit? “Blessed are the meek; for they shall inherit the
earth." Matt. 5:5.
What graces are the meek of the earth exhorted to seek that they may be hid
in the day of the Lord's fierce anger? “Seek ye the Lord, all ye meek of the earth, which
have wrought His judgment: seek righteousness, seek meekness: it may be ye shall be hid
in the day of the Lord's anger." Zeph. 2:3.
NOTE. - The fact that the meek are required to seek meekness, is evidence that they should seek to
be more meek than they are, and that sanctification is a progressive work.