Chapter 176
Modern Forms of Intemperance
============================

What injunction regarding purity did Paul give Timothy?
"Keep thyself pure." 1 Tim. 5:22, last clause.
To what extent should all be kept pure?
"Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all
filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God." 2 Cor. 7:1.
Can one indulge in the use of anything filthy or polluting, and still be pure?
"Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and
touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you." 2 Cor. 6:17.
What will the Lord do to those who defile the temple of God?
"If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God
is holy, which temple ye are." 1 Cor. 3:17.
What article in common use is defiling to the user?
"Chemists, botanists, and physicians unite in pronouncing tobacco one of the most
deadly poisons known. No other poison, with the exception of prussic acid, will cause
death so quickly, only three or four minutes being required for a fatal dose to produce its
full effect.
"The active principle of tobacco, that, is nicotine, a heavy, oily substance, which
may be separated from the dried leaf of the plant by distillation or infusion. The proportion
of nicotine varies from two to eight percent, Kentucky and Virginia tobacco usually
containing six or seven percent. A pound of tobacco contains, on an average, three hundred
and eighty grains of this deadly poison, of which one tenth of a grain will kill a dog in ten
minutes. A case is on record in which a man was killed in thirty seconds by this poison...
Hottentots use the oil of tobacco to kill snakes, a single minute drop causing death as
quickly as a lightning stroke. It is much used by gardeners and keepers of greenhouses to
destroy grubs and noxious insects [its proper sphere of usefulness]." J. H. Kellogg, M.D., in
Health Science Leaflets, No.16.
What are some of the symptoms of tobacco poisoning?
Dr. B. W. Richardson, one of the highest medical and scientific authorities of
England, says: "Smoking produces disturbances (a). In the blood, causing undue fluidity
and change in the red blood corpuscles; (b). In the stomach, giving rise to debility, nausea,
and in extreme cases, sickness; (c). Of the heart, producing debility of that organ, and
irregular action; (d). Of the organs of sense, causing, in the extreme degree, dilation of the
pupil of the eye, confusion of vision, bright lines, luminous or cobweb specks, and long
retention of images on the retina, with other and analogous symptoms affecting the ear,
viz., inability clearly to define sounds, and the annoyance of a sharp, ringing sound like a
whistle or a bell; (e). In the brain, suspending the waste of that organ, and oppressing it if it
be duly nourished; (f). Of the nervous filaments and sympathetic or organic nerves, leading
to deficient power in them, and to over secretion in those surfaces glands over which the
nerves exert a controlling force; (g). In the mucous membrane of the mouth, causing
enlargement and soreness of the tonsils, smoker's sore throat, redness, dryness, and
occasional peeling off of the membrane, and either unnatural firmness and contraction or
sponginess of the gums; (h). On the bronchial surface of the lungs when that is already
irritable, sustaining the irritation and increasing the cough."
What does the apostle exhort all to do concerning their former habits?
"That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but
to the will of God." l Peter 4:2.
What reason does he give for this advice?
"For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the
Gentiles, when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings,
and abominable idolatries." 1 Peter 4:3.
NOTE.-That is, when carrying out the lusts of the flesh in the way here mentioned, one is doing the
will of the Gentiles, or heathen, instead of the will of God.
With whom was tobacco using first known?
In the month of November, 1492, when Columbus discovered the island of Cuba,
he sent two sailors to explore it, who reported, when they returned, among many other
strange and curious discoveries, that the natives carried with them lighted fire brands, and
puffed smoke from their mouths and noses, which they supposed to be the way the savages
had of perfuming themselves. They afterward declared that they "saw the naked savages
twist large leaves together, and smoke like devils." Originating with the Indians of
America, the smoking habit was, after some years, introduced into Europe; and was rapidly
adopted, not only by the lower classes, but by those in high authority, even princes and
nobles participating in the new intoxication.
How are all exhorted to glorify God? “For ye are bought with a price; therefore
glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God's." 1 Cor. 6:20.
NOTE.-One certainly cannot glorify God in the use of a weed which has the effect on the body that
tobacco has. If one is addicted to the habit of using the vile stuff, he must abandon it, in order to glorify God
in all ways.
What course will those take who are looking for the Saviour?
"Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be:
but we know that, when He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He
is. And every man that hath this hope in Him, purifieth himself even as He is pure." 1 John
2:2, 3.
NOTE.-If one purifies himself as Christ is pure, he must be free from all such habits as tend to defile
the body.
Dr. Roberts, an eminent English physiologist, published in the British Medical
Journal the results of a series of experiments with tea, coffee, cocoa, chocolate, wine, and
other stimulants. He states that "tea, even in minute quantities, paralyzes completely the
action of the salivary secretion upon the food. Tea also retards stomachal digestion when
the infusion amounts to one fifth of the entire contents of the stomach. Coffee and cocoa
have very little effect upon salivary digestion, but interfere with the digestion of food in the
stomach to as great an extent as does tea."
"Tea contains two harmful substances, theine and tannin−from three to six percent
of theine and more than one fourth of its weight of tannin. Coffee contains both theine and
tannin, though in less proportion than tea . . It will surprise many devotees of the cup to be
told that these common beverages contain a violent poison, but such is the fact. Theine has
been separated from both tea and coffee, and experiments have been made with it which
show most conclusively that it is a deadly poison, capable of producing immediate death in
both human beings and lower animals. Theine belongs to the same class of poisons as
strychnia.. Tea contains about three percent of theine, or more than fourteen grains to the
ounce. Every pound of tea contains enough of this poison to kill fifteen hundred frogs or
more than forty cats . . Yet half an ounce of tea, containing six or seven grains of the
poison, is often used in making a strong cup of tea. Many persons drink half a dozen or
more such cups of tea daily, thus imbibing a sufficient amount of poisonous theine to kill
two or three men not accustomed to its use, if taken at one dose. If tea contains such a
poison, why does it not produce fatal results more frequently than it does, one may ask? We
answer, simply because a tolerance of the drug is established by use, just as in the case of
tobacco."-J.H. Kellogg, M.D., in Health Science Leaflets, No. 11.
The eminent Dr. Bock, of Leipzig, asserts that "the nervousness and peevishness of
our times are chiefly attributable to tea and coffee; the digestive organs of confirmed coffee
drinkers are in a state of chronic derangement, which reacts upon the brain, producing
fretful and lachrymose moods. Ladies addicted to the use of strong coffee have a
characteristic temper, which I might describe as a mania for acting the persecuted saint.
If the plea is made that these are simply the effects of the excessive use of tea and
coffee, and no harmful effects can be attributed to their moderate use, we have only to say
that the effects referred to are simply those of a poison, and it remains yet to be shown that
the habitual use of any poison can be in any way beneficial to the human system. It is cer-
tainly reasonable to suppose that the only essential difference between the liberal and the
moderate use of tea and coffee, is that, in one case, great harm is done, and in the other,
less. Total abstinence from all stimulants and narcotics is the only rule which should be
accepted by a thorough-believing temperance man or woman.
When the saints are gathered at last into the city of God, who will be kept out?
"And there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth, neither whatsoever
worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but they which are written in the Lamb's book of
life." Rev. 21:21.
Section 18
The Kingdom Restored