Chapter 133
Patience
===========

For what were the precious promises of the word written? “For whatsoever
things were written aforetime, were written for our learning, that we through patience and
comfort of the Scriptures might have hope." Rom. 15:4.
What is the Father Himself called? “The God of patience and consolation."
Rom: 15:5.
Is patience enjoined upon us in Holy Writ? “Be patient toward all men." 1
Thess. 5:14. "In your patience possess ye your souls." Luke 21:19.
What contrast in drawn between the patient and the hasty spirit? “He that is
slow to wrath is of great understanding; but he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly." Prov.
14:29.
What worthy persons did James refer to, while dwelling on patience? “Take,
my brethren, the prophets... for an example of suffering affliction, and of patience." "Ye
have heard of the patience of Job." James 5:10, 11.
For what glorious event are the children of God bidden patiently to wait?
“And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and into the patient waiting for
Christ." 2 Thess. 3:5. "Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Be ye
also patient, stablish your hearts; for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh." James 5:7, 8.
What good things are spoken of those who endure? “Behold, we count them
happy which endure." James 5:11. "Blessed is the man that endureth temptation." James
1:12. "He that endureth to the end, shall be saved." Matt. 10:22.
What does the trying of faith work? “Knowing this, that the trying of your faith
worketh patience." James 1:3. "Not only so but we glory in tribulations also; knowing that
tribulation worketh patience." Rom. 5:3.
What will be one of the characteristic traits of those who shall prepare for the
second coming of Christ? “Here is the patience of the saints; here are they that keep the
commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus... And I looked, and behold a white cloud,
and upon the cloud One sat like unto the Son of man, having on His head a golden crown,
and in His hand a sharp sickle." Rev. 14:12, 14.
What should be the language of every heart? “I wait for the Lord, my soul doth
wait, and in His word do I hope." Ps. 130:5.