Chapter 134
Wisdom
===========

What is recommended as the principal thing to gain? “Wisdom is the principal
thing; therefore get wisdom."- Prov. 4:7.
What will this acquisition bring to those who obtain it? “Exalt her, and she shall
promote thee: she shall bring thee to honor, when thou dost embrace her. She shall give to
thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of glory shall she deliver to thee." Prov. 4:8, 9.
How are the things of earth to be compared to it? “She is more precious than
rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her." Prov. 3:15.
Whence comes this precious acquirement? “For the Lord giveth wisdom." Prov.
2:6.
How may one obtain it? “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that
giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." James 1:5.
What does this asking involve? “But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering: for he
that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man
think that he shall receive anything of the Lord." James 1:6, 7.
What is the beginning, or first state, of wisdom? “The fear of the Lord is the
beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do His commandments: His
praise endureth forever." Ps. 111:10.
What has the Saviour promised to those who will keep His words? “If a man
love Me, he will keep My words: and My Father will love him, and We will come unto
him, and make Our abode with him." John 14:23.
What among other things, will the Spirit of God do for those who are thus
favored? “But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the Spirit searcheth all
things, yea, the deep things of God." 1 Cor. 2:10.
What is included in these "deep things?" "O Lord, how great are Thy works! and
Thy thoughts are very deep." Ps. 92:5.
How far may one hope to know the mind of God regarding himself? “Be ye
transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and
acceptable, and perfect will of God." Rom. 12:2.
How will he appear who has been thus honored of God? “Who is as the wise
man? and who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? a man's wisdom maketh his face to
shine, and the boldness of his face shall be changed." Eccl. 8:1.
How many kinds of wisdom are there? “Howbeit we speak wisdom among them
that are perfect; yet not the wisdom of this world... But we speak the wisdom of God in a
mystery, even the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory." 1
Cor. 2:6, 7.
How is worldly wisdom regarded by God? “For the wisdom of this world is
foolishness with God." 1 Cor. 3:19.
What is the character of that wisdom which comes from God? “But the wisdom
that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be intreated, full of
mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy." James 3:17.