Chapter 80
The Gospel in the Old Testament
===============================

In what condition did the sin of Adam place the human family? “Wherefore, as
by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin: and so death passed upon all men,
for that all have sinned." Rom. 5:12.
How does the offer of salvation come to all? “Therefore as by the offense of one
judgment came upon all men to condemnation: even so by the righteousness of one the free
gift came upon all men unto justification of life." Rom. 5:18.
Is there any other way to obtain salvation? “Neither is there salvation in any
other; for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be
saved." Acts 4:12.
Through what are men saved? “For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that
not of yourselves: it is the gift of God." Eph. 2:8.
By what were the patriarchs to receive the promises of God? “Therefore it is of
faith, that it might be by grace; to the end the promise might be sure to all the seed." Rom.
4:16.
What did the prophets teach concerning justification through faith? "The just
shall live by his faith." Hab. 2:4.
Through whom did the prophets teach should come the remission of sins? “To
Him give all the prophets witness, that through His name whosoever believeth in Him shall
receive remission of sins." Acts 10:43.
Did Abraham possess this faith? “Abraham believed God, and it was counted
unto him for righteousness." Rom. 4:3. "Your father Abraham rejoiced to see My day: and
he saw it, and was glad." John 8:56.
How did Abraham have a view of Christ's day? “And the Scripture, foreseeing
that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto
Abraham." Gal. 3:8.
Whose children are all that believe? “Know ye therefore that they which are of
faith, the same are the children of Abraham." Gal. 3:7.
What did faith in Christ enable Moses to do? “By faith Moses, when he was
come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter; choosing rather to suffer
affliction with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season; esteeming
the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt." Heb. 11:24-26.
From what source did the children of Israel draw spiritual life?” And were all
baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea; and did all eat the same spiritual meat; and
did all drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of that spiritual Rock that followed
them: and that Rock was Christ." 1 Cor. 10:2-4.
Where must the gospel hope have been learned, before the New Testament
was written? “For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed Me; for he wrote of Me.
But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe My words?" John 5:46, 47.
Who inspired the Old Testament writers in their declarations? “Of which
salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace
that should come unto you: searching what, or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ
which was in them did signify." 1 Peter 1:10, 11.
From what did Christ preach the gospel to His disciples when on the way to
Emmaus? “And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, He expounded unto them in all
the Scriptures the things concerning Himself." Luke 24:27.
Who is both author and finisher of the plan of salvation? “Looking unto Jesus,
the author and finisher of our faith." Heb. 12:2.