Chapter 146
Missionary Work
===============

What has been given to every man? “For the Son of man is as a man taking a far
journey, who left his house, and gave authority to his servants, and to every man his work,
and commanded the porter to watch." Mark 13:34.
Besides work, what else has He given to every man? “And unto one He gave five
talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability;
and straightway took his journey." Matt. 25:15.
Who comprise the "every man" here spoken of? “For the kingdom of heaven is
as a man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them
his goods." Matt. 25:14.
Do all who profess to be God's servants make good use of the talents given
them? “Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made
them other five talents... But he that had received one went and digged in the earth, and hid
his lord's money." Matt. 25:16-18.
What did that one who hid his talent in the earth, render as an excuse for so
doing? “And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is
thine." Matt. 25:25.
What did his master say to that servant because he hid his talent? “His lord
answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant." Matt. 25:26.
What did he say the servant ought, at least, to have done with the talent?
“Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I
should have received mine own with usury." Matt. 25:27.
The man in the parable was afraid as well, because he said his master was a
hard man. But was it real, honest fear that made him act as he did? “And he saith unto
him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I
was an austere man, taking up that I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow;
wherefore then gavest not thou my money into the bank, that at my coming I might have
required mine own with usury?" Luke 19:22, 23.
What was the fate of the slothful servant? “And cast ye the unprofitable servant
into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." Matt. 25:30.
Who else will share the same fate? “But He shall say, I tell you, I know you not
whence ye are; depart from Me, all ye workers of iniquity." Luke 13:27.
What was said to the servant who improved the talents given to him? “His lord
said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few
things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord." Matt.
25:21.
What did the joy placed before the Savior enable Him to bear? “Looking unto
Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before Him endured
the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God." Heb.
12:2.
When will the Lord have this satisfaction and joy? “He shall see the travail of
His soul, and shall be satisfied." Isa. 53:11.
How will Christ demonstrate the joy He feels at that time? “The Lord thy God
in the midst of thee is mighty; He will save, He will rejoice over thee with joy: He will rest
in His love, He will joy over thee with singing." Zeph. 3:17.
What did Paul expect would be his joy at that time? “For what is our hope, or
joy, or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at His
coming? For ye are our glory and joy." 1 Thess. 2:19, 20.
Since this joy comes to Christ only through His self-denial and sufferings for
others, in what way must all others partake of that joy? “It is a faithful saying: For if
we be dead with Him, we shall also live with Him: if we suffer, we shall also reign with
Him; if we deny Him, He also will deny us." 2 Tim. 2:11, 12.
What motive should prompt everyone to engage in the work of saving souls?
“For the love of Christ constraineth us: because we thus judge, that if one died for all, then
were all dead." 2 Cor. 5:14.
Whom does every faithful worker represent?
"Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us:
we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God." 2 Cor. 5:20.
If one excuses himself from the work, what will be the result?
"Every branch in Me that beareth not fruit He taketh away; and every branch that
beareth fruit, He purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit." John 15:2.
What position does one really occupy who does not labor for Christ?
"He that is not with Me is against Me: and he that gathereth not with Me scattereth."
Luke 11:23.