Chapter 60
The World's Conversion
======================

What did Jesus say would be the condition of the world just prior to His
coming? “As it was in the days of Noe, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man."
Luke 17:26. (See also verses 27-30, and Matthew 24:37-39.) In the days of Noah, "God
saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the
thoughts of his heart was only evil continually." "And the earth was filled with violence."
Genesis 6:5, 11.
According to the parable of the wheat and tares, how long do the good and
bad remain together? “The field is the world; the good seed are the children of the
kingdom, but the tares are the children of the wicked one; the enemy that sowed them is the
devil." "Let both grow together until the harvest: and in the time of harvest I will say to the
reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them." Matthew
13:38, 39, 30. "The harvest is the end of the world." Verse 39.
Did Christ tell us that worldwide preaching of the gospel would result in
world conversion? “And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for
a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come." Matthew 24:14.
How did Paul describe the last days? “In the last days perilous times shall come."
2 Timothy 3:1. "Evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being
deceived." Verse 13.
How does Scripture describe the state of international affairs? “Proclaim ye
this among the nations; prepare war, stir up the mighty men, let all the men of war draw
near, let them come up. Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into
spears: let the weak say, I am strong." Joel 3:9, 10.
What statement by Jeremiah about conditions in his day equally applies to
our own time? “They have healed also the hurt of the daughter of My people slightly,
saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace." Jeremiah 6:14.
Will talking about world peace create a false security? “There shall come in the
last days scoffers, walking after their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of His
coming? for since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the
beginning of the creation." 2 Peter 3:3, 4. "For yourselves know perfectly that the day of
the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say, Peace and safety; then
sudden destruction cometh upon them... But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day
should overtake you as a thief." 1 Thessalonians 5:2-4.
What warning to Isaiah to the faithful in his day should also be the Christian's
reaction to last-day conditions? “Neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid." Isaiah 8:12.
(See 1 Peter 3:14.) "When these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your
heads; for your redemption draweth nigh." Luke 21:28.