Chapter 175
Temperance
===========

With what does the apostle Paul class temperance?
"But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness,
faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law." Gal. 5:22, 23.
What does the same apostle say of those who strive for the mastery?
"And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things." 1 Cor.
9:25.
In running the Christian race, what did Paul say he did in order to be
successful?
"But I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection: lest that by any means,
when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway." 1 Cor. 9:27.
What is the effect of intemperance?
"Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? who hath contentions? who hath babbling? who
hath wounds without cause? who hath redness of eyes? They that tarry long at the wine;
they that go to seek mixed wine." Prov. 23:29, 30.
Why were kings prohibited the use of strong drink?
"It is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes strong drink; lest they drink, and
forget the law, and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted." Prov. 31:4, 5.
Why were priests not allowed to use intoxicating drink?
"And the Lord spake unto Aaron, saying, Do not drink wine nor strong drink, thou,
nor thy sons with thee, when ye go into the tabernacle of the congregation, ...that ye may
put difference between holy and unholy, and between unclean and clean." Lev. 10:8-10.
Why did Daniel and his companions refuse to drink of the wine of the king of
Babylon?
"But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion
of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank." Dan. 1:8.
After protesting against the use of the stimulants offered them, what did they
request?
"Prove thy servants, I beseech thee, ten days: and let them give us pulse to eat and
water to drink." Dan. 1:12.
At the end of the ten days' test, how did these Hebrews appear?
"And at the end of ten days their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh
than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat." Dan. 1:15.
At the end of three years (the time appointed for them to learn the Chaldean
tongue, (Dan. 1:4, 5) how many in the realm were found equal in learning to these
abstainers?
"Now at the end of the days... the king communed with them; and among them all
was found none like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah ...And in all matters of
wisdom and understanding, that the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better
than all the magicians and astrologers that were in all his realm." Daniel 1:18-20.
Did not Paul recommend the use of wine under certain conditions?
"Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sake, and thine often
infirmities." 1 Tim. 5:23.
NOTE. - There are two kinds of wine spoken of in the Bible. One of these was the juice of the grape,
and was pressed from the fruit into the cup as it was needed to drink. Gen. 40:11. It is this kind that is said to
cheer God and man (Judges 9:13), and is dried up when the vine is destroyed. Joel 1:10-12. The other kind
was that which had stood until it fermented, and alcohol had formed from the decaying substance.
How is the first kind spoken of?
"Butter of kine, and milk of sheep, with fat of lambs, and rams of the breed of
Bashan, and goats, with the fat of kidneys of wheat; and thou didst drink the PURE
BLOOD OF THE GRAPE." Deut. 32:14.
How is the second kind represented?
"Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his color in the cup,
when it moveth itself aright. At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder."
Prov. 23:31, 32.
NOTE.-That is, when it moves upright; as in the process of fermentation, it may be seen moving
from the bottom upward. The original word here used-aright-means something "upright."
With what other low debaucheries is drunkenness more or less associated?
"Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred,
variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness,
revelings, and such like." Gal. 5:19-21.
Can a drunkard enter the kingdom of God? “Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor
drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God." 1 Cor. 6:10.
How, then, should a Christian regard one who persists in drunkenness? “But
now I have written unto you not to keep company, if any man that is called a brother be a
fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard." 1 Cor. 5:11.