Chapter 138
Perfection of Character
=======================

By nature, what is the condition of all men? “For all men have sinned, and come
short of the glory of God." Rom. 3:23. Read also verses 10-12.
How may one's nature be changed? “Therefore if any man be in Christ he is a
new creature; old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new." 2 Cor. 5:17.
What is it to be in Christ? “There is therefore now no condemnation to them
which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit." Rom. 8:1.
What are the works of the flesh? “Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which
are these: Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred,
variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness,
revelings, and such like." Gal. 5:19-21.
And what is the fruit of the Spirit? “But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace,
longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance." Gal. 5:22, 23.
How are those denominated who are led by the Spirit? “For as many as are led
by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God." Rom. 8:14.
What assurance is given to the sons of God? “Beloved, now are we the sons of
God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be; but we know that, when He shall appear,
we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He is." l John 3:2.
If one has this hope, what will he surely do? “And every man that hath this hope
in him purifieth himself, even as He [Christ] is pure." 1 John 3:3.
Is the doctrine of perfection taught in the Bible? “But let patience have her
perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting [lacking] nothing." James 1:4.
Is one perfected when he receives the principles of Christ? “Therefore leaving
the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection." Heb. 6:1.
In order to accomplish this, what must be done? “But grow in grace, and in the
knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ." 2 Peter 3:18.
How may one grow in grace? “And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your
faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance,
patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindness; and to brotherly
kindness, charity." 2 Peter 1:5-7.
In requiring so much of His followers, what is the design of Christ? “That He
might present it to Himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such
thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish." Eph. 5:27.
What will cause the Christian to grow? “As newborn babes, desire the sincere
milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby." 1 Peter 2:2.
In order to grow by the word of God, what must one do with it? "Thy work
have I hid in mine heart." Ps. 119:11.
And what must that word become to the heart? "Thy words were found, and I
did eat them: and thy word was unto me the joy and rejoicing of mine heart; for I am called
by thy name, O Lord God of hosts." Jer. 15:16.
In building up the character, what else is necessary? “But ye, beloved, building
up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost." Jude 20.
What advantage will prayer be to one engaged in such work? “If any of you
lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it
shall be given him." James 1:5.
On what occasions is it proper to ask God for help? “Be careful for nothing; but
in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made
known unto God." Phil. 4:6.
If we fulfill the conditions of the Bible, how perfect may we expect God's care
for us to be? “And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole
spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ."
l Thess. 5:23.
Section 13
Prayer and Worship