Chapter 179
The New Jerusalem
=================

Has God prepared a dwelling place for His people?
"But now they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly; wherefore God is not
ashamed to be called their God; for He hath prepared for them a city." Heb. 11:16.
Where is this city? And what is it called?
"But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us all." Gal. 4:26.
After sojourning in the land of promise as a stranger and a pilgrim, to what
did Abraham look forward?
"For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God."
Heb. 11:10.
When we embrace Christ, unto what do we come by faith?
"But ye are come unto Mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly
Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels." Heb. 12:22.
What did John see concerning this city?
"And I John saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God, out of
heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." Rev. 21:2.
Is this the city for which Abraham looked?
"And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the
twelve apostles of the Lamb." Rev. 21:14. Compare with Heb. 11:10.
What is the measurement of the city?
"And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the breadth; and he
measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand furlongs." Rev. 21:16.
NOTE. - The measure around it, as the words length and breadth imply, and as was the early custom
of measuring cities, was 12,000 furlongs, equal to 1,500 miles [2,410.8 kilometers] , or 375 miles [602.7
kilometers] on each side, making a perfect square.
What was the height of the wall?
"And he measured the wall thereof, a hundred and forty and four cubits." Rev.
21:17.
NOTE. - 144 cubits =216 feet [66 meters].
Of what material is the wall constructed?
"And the building of the wall of it was of jasper; and the city was pure gold, like
unto clear glass." Rev. 21:18.
With what are the twelve foundations (or as some suppose, ornamental bases)
of the wall adorned?
"And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with all manner of
precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, a
chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald; The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh,
chrysolyte; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a chrysoprasus; the eleventh, a
jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst." Revelation 21:19, 20.
NOTE. - Prof. Stuart says of these stones that, in order and arrangement, they are like the colors of
the rainbow, only more complex and much more brilliant. There can be no question as to their extreme
brilliancy; but with reference to their arrangement, it has been suggested on good authority, that whereas the
high priest of the Israelites wore these twelve stones in his breastplate, to represent the twelve tribes of Israel;
and whereas the New Jerusalem itself has twelve gates, each bearing the name of one of the twelve tribes,
designating the particular place each tribe occupies in the city, that these ornamental stones will be only on
that part of the foundation where the tribe is located, which the stone itself has ever represented. Another
suggestion is that these foundations are super imposed horizontally one upon another in the form of terraces,
each color extending continuously around the city, the whole being arranged in steps from the ground to the
wall.
Of what are the twelve gates composed?
"And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; every several gate was of one pearl; and
the street of the city was pure gold, as it were transparent glass." Rev. 21:21.
What will be excluded from that city?
"And there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth, neither whatsoever
worketh abomination, or maketh a lie." Rev. 21:27.
Who will be welcomed there?
"Blessed are they that do His commandments, that they may have right to the tree of
life, and may enter in through the gates into the city." Rev. 22:14.
In what condition will those be who are permitted to dwell in the holy city?
"And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more
death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain; for the former things
are passed away." Rev. 21:4.
What is to be a prominent object in the city?
"And there shall be no more curse; but the throne of God and of the Lamb, shall be
in it; and His servants shall serve Him." Rev. 22:3.
What will flow from under the throne of God?
"And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of
the throne of God and of the Lamb." Rev. 22:1.
What stands on either side of that river?
"In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of
life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month; and the leaves
of the tree were for the healing of the nations." Rev. 22:2.
NOTE. - "The tree of life." That which Adam lost through transgression is to be restored by Christ,
and will be enjoyed by the redeemed throughout the never ending cycles of eternity. Those who really keep
God's commandments, have the promise of a right to that life giving tree. Rev. 22:14.