Chapter 35
Our Pattern, Helper, and Friend
===============================

How alone should the Christian walk? “He that saith he abideth in Him ought
himself also so to walk, even as He walked." 1 John 2:6. (See Colossians 2:6.)
What mind should be in us? “Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ
Jesus." Philippians 2:5.
While yet but a child, what example of obedience to parents did He present to
us?” And He went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them."
Luke 2:51.
How are His childhood and youth described? “And Jesus increased in wisdom
and stature, and in favor with God and man." Verse 52.
What example did He give us in regard to baptism? “Then cometh Jesus from
Galilee to Jordan unto John, to be baptized of him. But John forbad Him, saying, I have
need to be baptized of Thee, and comest Thou to me? And Jesus answering said unto him,
Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness. Then He suffered
him." Matthew 3:13-15.
How important was prayer in His life? “He went out into a mountain to pray, and
continued all night in prayer to God." Luke 6:12. "He took Peter and John and James, and
went up into a mountain to pray." Luke 9:28.
To what kind of work did Jesus dedicate His life? “Who went about doing
good." Acts 10:38.
What was it that caused Jesus to leave the riches of heaven and come down
and live here on earth?” For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though He
was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, that ye through His poverty might be rich." 2
Corinthians 8:9.
When misunderstood, reviled, and mistreated, what did He do? “Who, when
He was reviled, reviled not again,. when He suffered, He threatened not; but committed
Himself to Him that judgeth righteously." 1 Peter 2:23.
How did He pray for those who crucified Him? “Then said Jesus, Father,
forgive them; for they know not what they do." Luke 23:34. (See Acts 3:17.)
What did the Bible predict His life would be like? “Thou hast loved
righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with
the oil of gladness above thy fellows." Hebrews 1:9.
How powerfully can Jesus bring us salvation? “I that speak in righteousness,
mighty to save." Isa. 63:1.
What was Christ's purpose in coming to this world? “For the Son of man is
come to seek and to save that which was lost." Luke 19:10.
Through what was Christ made a complete and perfect Saviour? "For it
became Him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons
unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings." Hebrews
2:10.
As a result of His suffering and temptation, what is Christ able to do? “For in
that He himself hath suffered being tempted, He is able to succour them that are tempted."
Verse 18.
How complete a Saviour is He? “Wherefore he is able to save them to the
uttermost that come unto God by Him, seeing He ever liveth to make intercession for
them." Hebrews 7 :25.
From what is He able to keep us? “Now unto Him that is able to keep you from
falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of His glory with exceeding joy, to
the only wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and
ever. Amen." Jude 24, 25.
What does Jesus, our Pattern, Helper, and Friend, call those who accept Him?
“Henceforth I call you not servants;... I have called you friends." John 15:15.
What kind of friend is He? “There is a Friend that sticketh closer than a brother."
Proverbs 18:24.
What is the evidence of a genuine friend? “A friend loveth at all times, and a
brother is born for adversity." Proverbs 17:17.