Chapter 70
The Perpetuity of the Law
=========================

Where must all men appear? "For we must all appear before the judgment seat of
Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath
done, whether it be good or bad." 2 Cor. 5:10.
What will be the standard in the judgment? “So speak ye, and so do, as they that
shall be judged by the law of liberty." James 2:12 (Rom. 3:19).
In what condition are all men? “For all have sinned, and come short of the glory
of God." Rom. 3:23.
How many are included in the "all" who have sinned? “What then? are we
better than they? No, in no wise; for we have before proved both Jews and Gentiles, that
they are all under sin." Rom. 3:9.
By what are all men thus proved guilty? “Now we know that what things soever
the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law; that every mouth may be stopped, and
all the world may become guilty before God." Rom. 3:19.
What effect does faith in Christ have upon the law? “Do we then make void the
law through faith? God forbid; yea, we establish the law." Rom. 3:31.
In what did the apostle Paul delight? “For I delight in the law of God after the
inward man." Rom. 7:22.
How does the carnal mind stand related to the law of God? “Because the carnal
mind is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be."
Rom. 8:7.
How long did the Saviour say all the law would be in force? “For verily I say
unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law,
till all [Greek, all things] be fulfilled." Matt. 5:18.
When asked which was the great commandment in the law, what answer did
Christ make? “Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,
and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And
the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." Matt. 22:37-39.
What did He say hung on these two requirements? “On these two
commandments hang all the law and the prophets." Matt. 22:40.
NOTE. - As long as these two great commandments continue, all the law must exist, as well; for it is
suspended on, and inherent in, these two great principles of love. As long as these last, that must continue. If
one loves God with all his heart, he will not worship idols nor images, neither will he profane the name of
God. He will remember the day which God has set apart as a day of worship. So, if one loves his neighbor as
himself, he will not kill him, steal from him, lie about him, or covet his possessions, etc. It is plain that if one
had in his heart the two principles of love set forth by the Saviour, he must keep the law of God in all its parts.
What does the apostle say about the practice of Christ in keeping the law?
“And ye know that He was manifested to take away our sins; and in Him is no sin." 1 John
3:5.
What does Christ say of Himself in this respect? “I have kept My Father's
commandments, and abide in His love." John 15:10.
If one would abide in Christ, what ought he to do? “He that saith he abideth in
Him ought himself also so to walk, even as He walked." 1 John 2:6.
How does James say one may be blessed in his deeds? “But whoso looketh into
the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer
of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed." James 1:25.
What is said of those who profess to know the Lord, and yet do not keep His
commandments? “He that saith, I know Him, and keepeth not His commandments, is a
liar, and the truth is not in him." 1 John 2:4.
What is the test whereby one may know he has passed from death unto life?
“We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren." 1 John
3:14.
How may one be sure he loves the brethren? “By this we know that we love the
children of God, when we love God, and keep His commandments." 1 John 5:2.
And what is the love of God?” For this is the love of God, that we keep His
commandments." 1 John 5:3.
What will characterize the "remnant" church?” And the dragon was wroth with
the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the
commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ." Rev. 12:17.