Chapter 27
Bible Election
==============

How earnestly should we seek for salvation?
"Wherefore... brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure." 2
Peter 1:10.
How important is it that we persevere to the end?
"Behold, I come quickly: hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy
crown." Revelation 3:11.
On what condition is the crown of life promised to us?
"Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life." Revelation. 2:10.
How long ago did God and Christ determine that they would seek to save us?
"According as He hath chosen us in Him [Christ] before the foundation of the
world." Ephesians 1:4.
Who are those that will thus be saved?
"That we should be holy and without blemish before Him in love." Verse 4, R.V.
To what has God foreordained those who attain to this character?
"Having foreordained us unto adoption as sons through Jesus Christ unto Himself."
Verse 5, R .V.
According to what does God call us?
"And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them
who are the called according to His purpose." Romans 8:28.
In fulfillment of whose plan have we been predestined?
"Being predestinated according to the purpose of Him who worketh all things after
the counsel of His own will." Ephesians 1:11.
Upon what condition is salvation offered to us?
"Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved." Acts 16:31.
For how long must we maintain our faith in and connection with God-in order
to achieve this final salvation?
"He that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved." Matthew 24:13. (See
James 1:12; Revelation 2:10.)
Can our names be written right now in heaven?
"But rejoice that your names are written in heaven." Luke 10:20. R.V .
Whose names only will be retained in those books?
"He that overcometh,... I will not blot out his name out of the book of life."
Revelations 3:5.
What scripture is sometimes cited as evidence that God is arbitrary in His
dealings with men?
"Therefore hath He mercy on whom He will have mercy, and whom He will He
hardeneth." Romans 9:18.
But what other scripture explains those toward whom God "wills" to be
merciful, or otherwise?
"With the merciful Thou wilt shew Thyself merciful; with an upright man Thou
wilt shew Thyself upright; with the pure Thou wilt shew Thyself pure; and with the
froward Thou wilt shew Thyself froward." Psalm 18:25, 26. (See also Isaiah 55:7.)
How many people does God desire to be saved?
"Who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth." 1
Timothy 2:4.
What is our part in the work of salvation?
"Choose you this day whom ye will serve." Joshua 24:15. "If any man willeth to do
His will, he shall know of the teaching." John 7:17, R .V. "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ,
and thou shalt be saved." Acts 16:31. "Whosoever will, let him take the water of life
freely." Revelation 22:17.