Chapter 33
Birth and Early Life of Christ
==============================

Where, in the Bible, is given the first promise of the Saviour from sin? “And
the lord said unto the serpent,... I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and
between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel."
Genesis 3:14, 15.
Through whose descendant was the promised restoration to come through?
“To thee [Abraham] will I give it, and to thy seed for ever." Genesis 13:15.
Who was this promised seed? “He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of
one, And to thy seed, which is Christ." Galatians 3:16.
What town was predicted to be the birthplace of the Christ? “And,.. he [Herod]
demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of
Judea." Matthew 2:4-6. (See Micah 5:2.)
Of whom was Christ to be born? “Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son,
and shall call his name Immanuel." Isaiah 7:14.
What name was Joseph told to give the promised Son when He was born?
“And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call His name Jesus: for He shall save His
people from their sins." Matthew 1:21,
At His birth, what message did the angel bring to the shepherds abiding in the
field? “And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of
great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a
Saviour, which is Christ the Lord." Luke 2:10, 11.
What was the song of praise that the host of angels sang that night? “And
suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and
saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." Verse 13,
14.
What important prophecy of Isaiah was fulfilled when Christ was born? “For
unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon His
shoulder." Isaiah 9:6.
What descriptive names did Isaiah give to Him? “And His name shall be called
Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace. Of
the increase of His government and peace there shall be no end." Verses 6, 7.
What did the godly Simeon say when he saw Jesus? “And when the parents
brought in the child Jesus, to do for Him after the custom of the law, then took he Him up in
his arms, and blessed God, and said, Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace,
according to thy word: for mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared
before the face of all people; a light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people
Israel." Luke 2:27-32.
Upon seeing Jesus, what were the words of the aged prophetess Anna? “And
she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of Him to all them
that looked for redemption in Jerusalem." Verse 38.
What did the Wise Men from the East do when they had found Jesus? “When
they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary His mother, and fell
down, and worshipped Him: and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto
Him gifts; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh." Matthew 2:11.
Why did Joseph flee to Egypt with Jesus and His mother? “And when they
were departed, behold, the angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise,
and take the young child and His mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I bring
thee word: for Herod will seek the young child to destroy Him." Verse 13.
How does John the revelator describe this satanic urge to destroy Christ?”
And the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her
child as soon as it was born." Revelation 12:4.
By what means did Herod seek to kill Jesus? “Then Herod, when he saw that he
was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the
children that were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and
under." Matthew 2:16.
After Herod's death, to what town did Joseph and his family move? “And He
came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth: that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the
prophets, He shall be called a Nazarene." Verse 23.
How does the Bible describe the early life of Jesus?” And the child grew, and
waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon Him." "And He
went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them." Luke 2:40, 51.
At the Feast in Jerusalem, how did Joseph and Mary lose Jesus when He was
twelve years old? “But they, supposing Him to have been in the company, went a day's
journey; and they sought Him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance. And when they
found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking Him." Verses 44-45.
What was Jesus doing when they later found Him?” And it came to pass, that
after three days they found Him in the temp le, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both
hearing them, and asking them questions." Verse 46.
What impact did His questions and answers have upon the spiritual leaders of
Israel? “And all that heard Him were astonished at His understanding and answers."
Verse 47.
How does Scripture summarize Christ's childhood and youth? “And Jesus
increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man." Verse 52.