Chapter 67
Elijah the Prophet
==================

Before the day of the lord, who was to be sent to the world? “Behold, I will send
you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord." Mal.
4:5.
In whom was this prophecy partially fulfilled? “For all the Prophets and the law
prophesied until John. And if ye will receive it, this is Elias, which was for to come." Matt.
11:13, 14.
What objection was raised by the scribes to Christ's mission? “And His
disciples asked Him, saying, Why then say the scribes that Elias must first come?" Matt.
17:10.
What answer was made to this? “And Jesus answered and said unto them, Elias
truly shall first come, and restore all things. But I say unto you, That Elias is come already,
and they knew him not, but have done unto him whatsoever they listed. Likewise shall also
the Son of man suffer of them. Then the disciples understood that He spake unto them of
John the Baptist." Matt. 17:11-13.
What was John's Testimony of himself?” And they asked him, What then? Art
thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that Prophet? And he answered, No." John
1:21.
How is this apparent discrepancy explained? “And he shall go before Him in the
spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the
disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord." Luke
1:17.
When was this spirit and power to be manifested? “Before 'the great and
dreadful' day of the Lord." Mal. 4:5.
What else was to take place before that "terrible" day? “The sun shall be turned
into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and the terrible day of the Lord
come." Joel 2:31.
Was that day still future in Peter's time? “But the day of the Lord will come as a
thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise." 2 Peter 3:10.
What did the spirit of Elijah lead him to do? “And Elijah came unto all the
people, and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow Him:
but if Baal, then follow him." 1 Kings 18:21.
After boldly declaring the truth, what was Elijah compelled to do? “Then
Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I
make not thy life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time. And when he saw
that, he arose, and went for his life, and came to Beersheba." 1 Kings 19:2, 3.
What charge was brought against Elijah? “And it came to pass, when Ahab saw
Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel?" 1 Kings 18: 17.
How did Elijah feel? “And said, It is enough; now, a Lord, take away my life; for I
am not better than my fathers." 1 Kings 19:4.
What did the Lord do for Elijah? “Behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and
horses of fire, and parted them both asunder; and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into
heaven." 2 Kings 2:11.
What will the last message before the Lord comes demand of the faithful?
“And the third angel followed them, saying in a loud voice, If any man worship the beast
and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand, the same shall drink of
the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of His
indignation... Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the commandments
of God, and the faith of Jesus." Rev. 14:9-12.
How will the remnant church be generally regarded for thus keeping God's
commandments? “And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with
the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of
Jesus Christ." Rev. 12:17.
How far may we expect this persecution to be carried against those who will
not yield to the power of the beast?” And he had power to give life unto the image of the
beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as would not
worship the image of the beast should be killed." Rev. 13:15.
If faithful, what will be done for these persecuted ones? “And I saw as it were a
sea of glass mingled with fire: and them that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over
his image, and over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of glass,
having the harps of God." Rev. 15:2.
How will the Lord gather His faithful ones in the last great struggle? “And He
shall send His angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together His
elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." Matt. 24:31.
Section 8
The Law of God