Chapter 157
Danger of Covetousness
======================

In what way has the Lord spoken of covetousness?
"And He said unto them, Take heed, and beware of covetousness: for a man's life
consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth." Luke 12:15.
NOTE. Covetous.− Inordinately desirous; excessively eager to obtain and possess; avaricious.
What showed this principle to be strong in the rich man who had already
more than he knew how well to take care of?
"And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there
will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much
goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry." Luke 12:18, 19.
But what did God say to him?
"But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee; then
whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided?" Luke 12:20.
What application of this parable did the Saviour make?
"So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God." Luke
12:21.
What does the apostle call covetousness?
"Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth; fornication,
uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is
idolatry." Col. 3:5.
What does he say the things here enumerated have brought upon mankind?
"For which things' sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience."
Col. 3:6.
What did Judas' covetousness lead him to do?
"And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the chief priests, to betray Him to
them. And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised to give him money. And he
sought how he might conveniently betray Him." Mark 14:10, 11.
How does the lord regard the covetous man?
"For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the covetous, whom the
Lord abhorreth." Ps. 10:3.
Then can God trust such men to bear responsibilities in His work?
"Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men
of truth, hating covetousness; and place such over them, to be rulers of thousands, and
rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens." Ex. 18:21 (1 Tim. 3:2, 3).
What is certain to follow the desire to be rich?
"But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish
and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition." 1 Tim. 6:9.
Will covetousness be one of the specially prevalent sins of the last days?
"This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be
lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers." 2 Tim. 3:1, 2.
What will these selfish ones be doing for themselves?
"Your gold and silver is cankered; and the rust of them shall be a witness against
you, and shall eat your flesh as It were fire. Ye have heaped treasure together for the last
days." James 5:3.
What admonition does the apostle give to the rich?
"Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high minded, nor trust in
uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy; that they do
good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate." 1 Tim.
6:17, 18.
What does the Lord say of giving?
"I have showed you all things, how that so laboring ye ought to support the weak,
and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how He said, It is more blessed to give than
to receive." Acts 20:35 (Prov. 11:24, 25).
To whom does the money we have belong?
"The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith the Lord of hosts." Haggai 2:8.
Men are simply stewards of God's treasures. (Luke 16:1-8). As such, what
does the Lord admonish us to do?
"And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of
unrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations."
Luke 16:9. "As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another,
as good stewards of the manifold grace of God." 1 Peter 4:10.
How does God regard the spirit of sacrifice?
"I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you,
an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. But my God shall
supply all your need according to His riches in glory by Christ Jesus." Phil. 4:18, 19.
Whom will Christ gather to Himself when He comes?
"He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that He may judge His
people. Gather My saints together unto Me; those that have made a covenant with Me by
sacrifice." Ps. 50:4, 5.
Heaven gave its choicest Treasure to redeem us. (1 Peter 1:18, 19). Will we not
partake of the same spirit, if we are God's children?
"And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ; if so be that
we suffer with Him, that we may be also glorified together." Rom. 8:17.