Chapter 32
Regeneration
============

What was the mission of Christ to the earth? “For the Son of man is come to
seek and to save that which was lost." Luke 19:10.
From what does Christ redeem us? “Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of
the law, being made a curse for us." Gal. 3:13.
Who shall see God? “Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God." Matt.
5:8.
What relation must those who see God, sustain to Him in this life? “Beloved,
now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that,
when He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He is." 1 John 3:2.
How does one become a child of God? “For ye are all the children of God by faith
in Christ Jesus." Gal. 3:26.
What is said of him who has faith in Christ? “Whosoever believeth that Jesus is
the Christ is born of God." 1 John 5:1.
But what does living faith in Christ include? “For as the body without the Spirit
is dead, so faith without works is dead also." James 2: 26.
When is faith effectual? “And whatsoever we ask, we receive of Him, because we
keep His commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in His sight." 1 John 3:22.
Is it necessary to do the things that we know are pleasing to God in order to
maintain living faith? “For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and
knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward
God." 1 John 3:20, 21.
But still, will keeping the law justify anyone? If not, why not? “Therefore by the
deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in His sight; for by the law is the knowledge
of sin." Rom. 3:20.
How are we justified? “Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God
through our Lord Jesus Christ." Rom. 5:1.
In what condition were we before being justified? “For I was alive without the
law once: but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died." Rom. 7:9.
How does God take away condemnation? “Even when we were dead in sins,
hath quickened us together with Christ." Eph. 2:5.
What does the apostle, in another place call this quickening? “According to His
mercy He saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost."
Titus 3:5.
What is one evidence of regeneration? “We know that we have passed from
death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in
death." 1 John 3:14.
Before man's fall, to what did he especially have access? “And out of the ground
made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the
tree of life also in the midst of the garden." Gen. 2:9.
After Adam transgressed, what was done to him? “So He drove out the man;
and He placed at the east of the garden of Eden cherubim, and a flaming sword which
turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life." Gen. 3:24.
What was cursed because of the fall? “Cursed is the ground for thy sake; in
sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life." Gen. 3:17.
In the sin of our first parents, to whom did they yield their inheritance?
“While they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption: for of
whom a man is overcome, of the same is he brought in bondage." 2 Peter 2:19.
After the fall of man, did the earth pass into the hands of Satan? “And the
Devil, taking Him [Jesus] up into a high mountain, showed unto Him all the kingdoms of
the world in a moment of time, And the Devil said unto Him, All this power will I give
thee, and the glory of them: for that is delivered unto me; and to whomsoever I will, I give
it." Luke 4:5, 6.
Will the possession purchased by the blood of Christ, be restored again to
man? “In whom also, after that ye believed, ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of
promise, which is the earnest [pledge] of our inheritance until the redemption of the
purchased pos- session, unto the praise of His glory." Eph. 1:13, 14,
But in redeeming the possession, the earth, as well as man, must be cleansed
from the curse. How will this be done? and what will be the result? “Looking for and
hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be
dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat? Nevertheless we, according to His
promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness." 2 Peter
3:12, 13.
When will the regeneration of the earth take place? “And Jesus said unto them,
Verily I say unto you, That ye which have followed Me, in the regeneration when the Son
of man shall sit in the throne of His glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the
twelve tribes of Israel." Matt. 19:28.
What will be the condition of the earth when redeemed? “For the earth shall be
filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea." Hab. 2:14;
(Num.14:21).
Will the earth ever be cursed again, when once redeemed? “And there shall be
no more curse: but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and His servants shall
serve Him." Rev. 22:3.
Will man regain the right to the tree of life which was forfeited through sin?
“Blessed are they that do His commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life,
and may enter in through the gates into the city." Rev. 22:14.