Chapter 2
Searching the Scriptures
========================

What did Christ say to the people of His day concerning the Scriptures?
"Search the Scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life; and they are they
which testify of Me." John 5:39.
NOTE.-When this was spoken, not a word of the New Testament had been written. It was to the Old
Testament that the Jews looked as their guide to eternal life; and although they would not accept Christ, He
said that these very books which they esteemed so highly, testified of Him. If the Old Testament points to
Christ, it is worthy of our careful study.
Do the Scriptures furnish positive evidence that the gospel was known in the
patriarchal age?
"And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith,
preached before the gospel unto Abraham." Galatians 3:8.
NOTE.-It was through gospel faith that Abraham rejoiced to see the day of Christ. John 8:56. So
with all the faithful who lived in the patriarchal age. All these had a practical knowledge of the gospel, as
appears from their godly lives and sacrificial offerings.
Does Holy Writ contain unmistakable evidence that the Hebrews were taught
the gospel under the former dispensation?
"For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them; but the word preached
did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it," Hebrews 4:2.
NOTE.-The persons here referred to by "them" are the Israelites when on their journey from Egypt
to the promised land, as will be seen by the Scripture connection. Paul says the gospel was preached unto us,
as well as unto them, putting "them" ahead, and letting "us" have the gospel afterward.
Why did Moses give up the riches of Egypt?
"Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt."
Hebrews 11: 26.
NOTE.-People in that age, even as now, were influenced by the riches of Christ to give up the world.
Whence came the spiritual meat and drink of the Israelites while in the
wilderness?
"And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea; and did all eat the
same spiritual meat; and did all drink the same spiritual drink; for they drank of that
spiritual Rock that followed them: and that Rock was Christ." 1 Corinthians 10:2.4.
What was the chief corner-stone of the faith of both apostles and prophets?
"And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ
Himself being the chief cornerstone." Eph. 2:20.
What part of the Scriptures did Philip hear a certain eunuch reading?
"And Philip ran thither to him, and heard him read the prophet Esaias, and said,
Understandest thou what thou readest?" Acts 8:30.
When asked if he understood what he was reading, what reply did the eunuch
make?
"And he said, How can " except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip
that he would come up and sit with him." Acts 8:31.
What did Philip then do?
"Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and preached
unto him Jesus." Acts 8:35.
What are the Scriptures able to do?
"Hast thou not known the Holy Scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto
salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus." 2 Tim. 3:15.
What was said of the Bereans because they searched the Scriptures daily?
"These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word
with all readiness of mind, and searched the Scriptures daily, whether those things were
so." Acts 17:11.
By what is man to live?
"Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God." Matt. 4:4.
How greatly has God magnified His word?
"I will worship toward Thy holy temple, and praise Thy name for Thy
lovingkindness and for Thy truth; for Thou hast magnified Thy word above all Thy name. "
Ps. 138:2.