Chapter 173
Good Health
===========

What important wish (prayer, margin) is expressed by the apostle concerning
Gaius?
"Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as
thy soul prospereth." 3 John 1:2.
Why is it necessary to preserve the body in health?
"I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your
bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service."
Rom. 12:1.
When one is truly sanctified, how much of him will be affected? “And the very
God of peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be
preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ." 1 Thess. 5:23.
NOTE.-That is, the whole man-body, soul, and spirit- is to be set apart to God's service.
How did the apostle guard himself?
"But I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection: lest that by any means,
when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway." 1 Cor. 9:27.
Is it expedient to eat everything that it is lawful to eat?
"All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient: all things are lawful
for me, but all things edify not." 1 Cor. 10:23.
NOTE.-There is no doubt but that Paul is in this place talking about what should be eaten. He
teaches that under certain circumstances those to whom he writes, should abstain from eating of that which
has been offered to idols, lest weak Christians should be led into idolatry. 1 Cor. 10:20, 21, 28. But if one is
bidden to a feast, and feels disposed to go, he can eat what is set before him. In these things one is to consider,
not merely his appetite, but the glory of God and his influence on others.
Is God's glory to be considered even in one's eating?
"Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of
God." 1 Cor. 10:31.
What are our bodies said to be?
"What! know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you,
which ye have of God, and ye are not your own?" 1 Cor. 6:19.
What is the Christian's duty concerning his body in view of the fact that the
Spirit of God has taken possession of it?
"For ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your
spirit, which are God's." 1 Cor. 6:20.
NOTE.-Just as soon as the Spirit of God comes to dwell in one's body, it is no longer his, but is
simply in his care. It is his duty religiously to care for that body as God's property. If he shall through lust eat
that which brings disease into the body and destroys its vigor, he has placed it where it no longer glorifies
God.
What does the apostle say God will do to those who defile or mar this temple
of His, the human body?
"If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God
is holy, which temple ye are." 1 Cor. 3:17.
Can the body be defiled with improper food or drink?
"But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion
of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank." Dan. 1:8.
What sort of food did Daniel desire?
"And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon
the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to
you it shall be for meat." Gen. 1:29.
What kind of flesh did the Lord afterward permit man to eat?
"Whatsoever parteth the hoof, and is cloven footed, and cheweth the cud, among
the beasts, that shall ye eat." Lev. 11:3.
By what term was this class of creatures distinguished from the other?
"Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and his female; and
of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and his female." Gen. 7:2.
Which one of these now commonly eaten was mentioned as being unfit even to
touch?
"And the swine, because it divideth the hoof, yet cheweth not the cud, it is unclean
unto you; ye shall not eat of their flesh, nor touch their dead carcass." Deut. 14:8.
Why did the Lord thus restrict the Hebrews?
"For thou art a holy people unto the Lord thy God, and the Lord hath chosen thee to
be a peculiar people unto Himself, above all the nations that are upon the earth. Thou shalt
not eat any abominable thing." Deut. 14:2, 3.
NOTE. - The swine is a scavenger. As such it is a creature full of disease and filth; and it is plain that
the Lord does not want His people, whose bodies are His, to be polluted with such loathsome diet.
What does the Lord say of those who are found eating swine's flesh and the
like, when Christ comes?
"For behold, the Lord will come with fire, and with His chariots like a whirlwind, to
render His anger with fury, and His rebuke with flames of fire... They that sanctify
themselves, and purify themselves in the gardens behind one tree in the midst, eating
swine's flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse, shall be consumed together, saith the
Lord." Isa. 66:15-17.
NOTE. - When the Lord comes, He is to change the living righteous, that their bodies may be like
His glorious body. Phil. 3:21. This cannot well be done for those who have gross habits of diet. The condition
of the body affects the mind, and one who lives grossly is more or less sensual in his thoughts. One cannot
well be pure minded until he brings his body under (1 Cor. 9:27), and cultivates such habits as will be
conducive to spiritual mindedness. One in poor health cannot glorify God as another whose physical powers
are in full strength and consecrated to the divine service. It is, then, a moral duty to abstain from everything
unhealthful, that all the powers of the being may be in the best possible condition.