Chapter 8
Creation and Redemption
=======================

What grand truth is revealed in the first verse in the Bible?
"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth." Genesis 1:1.
What Bible contrast is repeatedly drawn between the true God and false
gods?
"Thus shall ye say unto them, The gods that have not made the heavens and the
earth, even they shall perish from the earth, and from under these heavens. The portion of
Jacob is not like them, for he is the former of all things; and Israel is the rod of his
inheritance: The Lord of hosts is His name." Jeremiah 10:11-16. (See Jeremiah 14:22; Acts
17:22-29; Revelation 14:6-10.)
Through whom did God work in the creation of all things?
"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was
God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him; and without
Him was not any thing made that was made." John 1:1-3.
Through whom is our redemption provided?
"But God commendeth His love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners,
Christ died for us. Much more then, being now justified by His blood, we shall be saved
from wrath through Him." Romans 5:8-9.
What passage of Scripture speaks of the Creator as Redeemer?
"But now thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, and He that formed thee, O
Israel, Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art Mine."
Isaiah 43:1.
Which prayer of David reveals that God's redemptive work of man is a
creative work?
“Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me." Psalm
51:10.
Where are we told that Christ, the active agent in creation, is also the head of
the church?
"For by Him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible
and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things
were created by Him, and for Him: and He is before all things, and by Him all things
consist. And He is the head of the body, the church: who is the beginning, the firstborn
from the dead; that in all things He might have the preeminence." Colossians 1:16-18.
What scripture clearly shows that it is God's creative power which transforms
the believer?
"For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God
hath before ordained that we should walk in them." Ephesians 2:10.
Who is it that keeps the stars in their places in the heavens?
"To whom then will ye liken Me, or shall I be equal? saith the Holy One. Lift up
your eyes on high, and behold who hath created these things, that bringeth out their host by
number: He calleth them all by names by the greatness of His might, for that He is strong in
power; not one faileth." Isaiah 40:25-26.
What can the same Creator do for you and me?
"Now unto Him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless
before the presence of His glory with exceeding joy, to the only wise God our Saviour, be
glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. Amen." Jude 24-25.
How much of this power is available to help us in our need?
"That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the
spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him: the eyes of your understanding
being en. lightened; that ye may know what is the hope of His calling, and what the riches
of the glory of His inheritance in the saints, and what is the exceeding greatness of His
power to us-ward who believe, according to the working of His mighty power, which He
wrought in Christ, when He raised Him from the dead, and set Him at His own right hand
in the heavenly places." Ephesians 1:17-20.
Who sustains the universe and keeps it each moment?
"And He [Christ] is before all things, and in Him all things hold together. "
Colossians 1:17, R.V., margin.
Of what great truth is the Seventh-day Sabbath a memorial and a sign?
"But to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in him;
and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him." 1 Corinthians 8:6.
The Sabbath is a memorial of Creation. Is it also a sign of God's power to
redeem us?
"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labour, and do all
thy work: but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any
work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy
cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: for in six days the Lord made heaven and
earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the Lord
blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it." Exodus 20:8-11. "It is a sign between Me and
the children of Israel for ever: for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and on the
seventh day He rested, and was refreshed." Exodus 31: 17. "Moreover also I gave them My
sabbaths, to be a sign between Me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord that
sanctify them." Ezekiel 20:12.
Why is God worthy to receive our worship, praise and honor?
"Thou are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power: for Thou hast
created all things, and for Thy pleasure they are and were created." Revelation 4:11.
NOTE: The comparatively modern view of Creation known as evolution, which rests upon
human research rather than upon Divine Revelation, substitutes an impersonal force for a personal
Creator, overthrows the very foundation of the gospel . Redemption is simple the new Creation and the
Creator is the Redeemer . The Head of the original creation was wrought through Christ by the power of
the Word; the new creation, or Redemption is wrought in exactly the same way. The evolution theory of
creation inevitably involves an evolution theory of the gospel, and sets aside the truth concerning sin,
the atoning sacrifice of Christ, and the necessity of becoming new creatures through faith in the saving
power of Christ.