Chapter 165
The Just Recompense
===================

What principle of justice should govern us in our intercourse with one
another?
"Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine
hand to do it." Prov. 3:27.
What general rule of recompense is given in the Scriptures?
"Judge not, that ye be not judged, for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be
judged, and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again." Matt. 7:1, 2.
Should one, in any case, render evil for evil?
"Recompense to no man evil for evil." Rom. 12:17. "Not rendering evil for evil, or
railing for railing, but contrariwise, blessing." 1 Peter 3:9.
What is said of those who render evil for good?
"Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house." Prov. 17:13.
Will all men be rewarded irrespective of character?
"Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much more the wicked
and the sinner." Prov. 11:31.
Will each man's work be fully brought to light and tested?
"Every man's work shall be made manifest; for the day shall declare it, because it
shall be revealed by fire: and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is." 1 Cor.
3:13.
Will partiality be shown in decisions rendered?
"Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?" Gen. 18:25. "Justice and judgment
are the habitation of thy throne; mercy and truth shall go before thy face. Ps. 89:14. "Who
will render to every man according to his deeds;" "for there is no respect of persons with
God." Rom. 2:6, 11.
May we not in reality decide for ourselves what our recompense shall be?
"See, I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil." Deut. 30:15.
"Thus saith the Lord: Behold, I set before you the way of life, and the way of death." Jer.
21:8.
Will the cases of any be overlooked in the judgment?
"For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may
receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or
bad." 2 Cor. 5:10.
What shall determine the nature of the reward in each case?
"Be not deceived: God is not mocked; for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he
also reap." Gal. 6:7.
Define the harvest of the wrong doer.
"For he that soweth to his flesh, shall of the flesh reap corruption." Gal. 6:8.
"Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man that doeth evil." Rom. 2:9.
What shall be the recompense of the righteous?
"But he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting." Gal. 6:8.
"But glory, honor, and peace to every man that worketh good." Rom. 2:10.
What scripture brings to view the cases of all as decided forever, and the time
when it is accomplished?
"He that is unjust, let him be unjust still; and he which is filthy, let him be filthy
still; and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still; and he that is holy, let him be holy
still. And, behold, I come quickly." Rev. 22:11, 12.
Then with what force is the subject under consideration brought home to each
heart?
"For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and
disobedience received a just recompense of reward, how shall we escape if we neglect so
great salvation?" Heb. 2:2, 3.
Section 16
Family and Home