Chapter 23
Evidences of Acceptance with God
================================

Who are accepted of God?
"In every nation he that feareth Him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with
Him." Acts 10:35. "If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted?" Gen. 4:7.
Since by nature man cannot "work righteousness," the carnal mind being
"enmity against God" (Rom. 8:7), what transformation is necessary?
"Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of
God." 1 Peter 1:23. "If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature." 2 Cor. 5:17.
By what agency is the new birth produced?
"That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is
spirit." John 3:6. "It is the Spirit that quickeneth." John 6:63. "If any man have not the Spirit
of Christ, he is not of His." Rom. 8:9.
How precious is forgiveness to the burdened soul at conversion! Is this rich
boon conferred as a thing that is due, or as a pure act of grace or unmerited favor?
"In whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins,
according to the riches of His grace." Eph. 1:7. "Father, I have sinned against heaven, and
before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son." Luke 15:18, 19.
NOTE.-This is true of justification (Rom. 4:1-5) and of every blessing that comes to us through
faith. Even faith as a mental action does not merit anything: all the merit is in Christ, whom we receive by
faith.
What relation exists between God and believers?
"I will be their God, and they shall be My people." "And will be a Father unto you,
and ye shall be My sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty." 2 Cor. 6:16, 18.
10, to.
Can such relation exist and one not be conscious of it?
"Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth Him not,
neither knoweth Him; but ye know Him: for He dwelleth with you, and shall be in you."
John 14:17. "The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of
God." Rom. 8:16. "Hereby know we that we dwell in Him, and He in us, because He hath
given us of His Spirit." 1 John 4:13.
What does the knowledge of our acceptance with God bring?
"Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus
Christ." Rom. 5:1.
Of what nature is the peace of the believer?
"Peace I leave with you, My peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I
unto you." John 14:27.
Will those who have this peace be free from tribulation?
"In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the
world." John 16:33.
What will be one of the delights of the converted man?
"For I delight in the law of God after the inward man." Rom. 7:22. "His delight is in
the law of the Lord." Ps. 1:2.
How may true believers be identified?
"By their fruits ye shall know them. Not everyone that saith unto Me, Lord, Lord,
shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of My Father which is in
heaven." Matt. 7:20, 21.
What is the fruit of the Spirit?
"The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness,
faith, meekness, temperance." Gal. 5:22, 23.
Can one bear this fruit of himself?
"As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can
ye, except ye abide in Me." John 15:4.
What was the experience of the two disciples who talked with Jesus on the way
to Emmaus?
"And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while He talked
with us by the way, and while He opened to us the Scriptures?" Luke 24:32.
What blessed experience may all have?
"If any man hear My voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup
with him, and he with Me." Rev. 3:20. "And the peace of God, which passeth all
understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus." Phil. 4:7.