Chapter 50
The First Angel's Message
=========================

Has God appointed the day of judgment? “Because He hath appointed a day, in
the which He will judge the world in righteousness." Acts 17:31.
To whom has this event been made known? “Surely the Lord God will do
nothing but He revealeth His secret unto His servants the prophets." Amos 3:7.
Where is the announcement of the judgment made? “Saying with a loud voice,
Fear God, and give glory to Him; for the hour of His judgment is come." Rev. 14:7.
What does the angel preach who makes this announcement? “And I saw
another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them
that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people." Rev.
14:6.
By what is this angel accompanied before his work is accomplished? “And
there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen... And the third angel followed
them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his
mark in his forehead or in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God."
Rev. 14:8-10.
What will be the effect of the united work of these three messages? “And
another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to Him that sat on the cloud,
Thrust in Thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come for thee to reap,. for the harvest of the
earth is ripe." Rev. 14:15. (See Matt. 13:39.)
What takes place in connection with the harvest? “And I looked, and behold a
white cloud, and upon the cloud One sat like unto the Son of man, haying on His head a
golden crown, and in His hand a sharp sickle." Rev. 14:14.
What was the appearance of an angel seen by John, as recorded in chapter
ten? “And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud; and
a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of
fire." Rev. 10:1.
What did he hold in his hand? “And he had in his hand a little book open." Rev.
10:2.
And what did the angel do?” And he set his right foot upon the sea, and his left
foot on the earth, and cried with a loud voice, as when a lion roareth." Rev. 10:2, 3.
What was the burden of this message? “And the angel which I saw stand upon
the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven, and sware by Him that liveth
forever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that therein are, and the earth, and the
things that therein are, and the sea, and the things which are therein, that there should be
time no longer." Rev. 10:5, 6.
The book in the hand of the angel, from which he proclaimed this time
message, was said to be "open." When was the only sealed book of the Bible, that
contained definite time, to be opened? “But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal
the book, even to the time of the end: many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be
increased." Dan. 12:4.
What does the prophet Daniel say about the judgment?” I beheld till the
thrones were cast down. I and the Ancient of days did sit,... thousand thousands ministered
unto Him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before Him: the judgment was set,
and the books were opened." Dan.7:9, 10.
What did Daniel see the little horn (Roman Church) do after the judgment
opened? “I beheld then because of the voice of the great words which the horn spake."
Dan. 7:11.
When did the angel say this judgment work, called the cleansing of the
sanctuary would commence? “And he said unto me, Unto two thousand three hundred
days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed." Dan. 8:14.
What did John do with the little book given him by the angel? And what effect
did it have upon him? “And I took the little book out of the angel's hand, and ate it up;
and it was in my mouth sweet as honey: and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter."
Rev. 10:10.
What was symbolized by his eating the book? “Moreover he said unto me, Son
of man, eat that thou findest; eat this roll, and go speak unto the house of Israel." Eze. 3:1.
Were not the disciples disappointed in their expectations concerning Christ's
work at His first advent? “When they therefore were come together, they asked of Him,
saying, Lord, will thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?" Acts 1:6. See also
Luke 24:19-21.
NOTE. - The disappointment of the disciples of Christ did not prove His mission false. As He rode
into Jerusalem amid the shouts of "Hosanna!" from the delighted disciples, who supposed He would then take
the throne of David and commence His reign, the Pharisees asked Him to rebuke the disciples. But Christ
answered: "I tell you that, if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out" (Luke
19:40). And why? Because the prophecies relating to His earthly work had predicted this entry into Jerusalem
(Zech. 9:9), and it must be fulfilled, even should the stones be caused to fulfill it. Then the Lord in this event
suffered His disciples to be disappointed; and yet they were fulfilling prophecy. When Israel left Egypt, under
the impression that they would in a few days, at farthest, enter the promised land, they, too, were
disappointed. But that did not disprove the divine call of Moses, nor show that the departure from Egypt was
not ordered by God. In every great movement which God has inaugurated among His people, He has suffered
disappointment to come, in order to test the faith of those engaged in it. It was so in the cases of Elijah, Jonah,
and others. And so it was in 1844. God suffered His people to misapprehend the intent of the prophecy, and
thus their faith was tested. The disappointment was due, not to an error in locating the beginning or the end of
the 2300 days, but in the nature of the event to occur at the end of those days. They supposed the cleansing of
the sanctuary meant the purifying of the earth by fire, at the coming of Christ.
What did the lord say should afterward be done? “And He said unto me, Thou
must prophesy again before many peoples, and nations, and tongues, and kings." Rev.
10:11.
What message was immediately to follow the proclamation of the judgment?
“And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen." Rev. 14:8. For
explanation of this message, see the next chapter (51).