Chapter 40
The Sure Word of Prophecy
=========================

By what means is all Scripture given?
"All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for
reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness." 2 Tim. 3:16.
For what purpose? “That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished
unto all good works. " 2 Tim. 3:17.
To whom do the things revealed belong? “The secret things belong unto the Lord
our God: but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children forever. "
Deut. 29:29.
What is the last book of the Bible called? “The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which
God gave unto Him." Rev. 1:1.
What is said of those who read or study this book? “Blessed is he that readeth,
and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written
therein." Rev. 1:3.
How were the Old Testament prophecies given? “For the prophecy came not in
old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy
Ghost." 2 Peter 1:21.
What is said of the interpretation of these prophecies? “Knowing this first, that
no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation [impulse]." 2 Peter 1:20.
In giving their prophetic utterances, what did the prophets seek? “Receiving
the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. Of which salvation the prophets have
inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you."
1 Peter 1:9, 10.
By whose spirit were they actuated? “Searching what, or what manner of time
the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand the
sufferings of Christ, and the glory that should follow." 1 Peter 1:11.
How did Peter confirm his former preaching on the coming of Christ? “For
we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power
and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eye-witnesses of His majesty." 2 Peter 1:16.
When did the apostle see the majesty (kingship) of Christ, and hear the a probative
words of God? “And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with
Him in the holy mount." 2 Peter 1:18.
What other and more certain evidence did he have of the power and coming of
Christ? “We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take
heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in
your hearts." 2 Peter 1:19.
To what prophecy did Christ refer His disciples when predicting the
destruction of Jerusalem? “When ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation,
spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place (whoso readeth, let him
understand)." Matt. 24:15.
When were all the prophecies in the book of Daniel to be understood? “But
thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end: many
shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased." Dan. 12:4.