Chapter 127
Forgiving One Another
=====================

What spirit should accompany prayer? “And when ye stand praying, forgive, if
ye have aught against any; that your Father also which is in heaven, may forgive you your
trespasses." Mark 11:25.
Will God pardon the unforgiving? “But if ye do not forgive, neither will your
Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses." Mark 11:26.
How should we ask for pardon? “And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our
debtors." Matt. 6:12.
How many times should we forgive? “Then came Peter to Him, and said, Lord,
how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? till seven times? Jesus saith
unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven times, but, Until seventy times seven." Matt.
18:21, 22.
In what parable are we taught forgiveness? “Therefore is the kingdom of heaven
likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants. And when he had
begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents. But
forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and
children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. The servant therefore fell down, and
worshiped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the lord
of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him the debt. But
the same servant went out, and found one of his fellow servants, which owed him a
hundred pence; and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that
thou owest. And his fellow servant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have
patience with me, and I will pay thee all. And he would not; but went and cast him into
prison, till he should pay the debt. So when his fellow servants saw what was done, they
were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done." Matt. 18:23-31.
In dealing with the erring, what feeling should actuate us? "Shouldest not thou
also have had compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee?" Matt. 18:33.
In forgiving, should we be satisfied with mere formalities? “So likewise shall
My heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not everyone his
brother their trespasses." Matt. 18:35.
How should we bestow mercy? “Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that
giveth, let him do it with simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that showeth mercy,
with cheerfulness." Rom. 12:8.
What should we do when a sin is confessed? “So that contrariwise ye ought
rather to forgive him, and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up
with overmuch sorrow." 2 Cor. 2:7.
In restoring the erring, what grace should we exemplify? “Brethren, if a man be
overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness;
considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted." Gal. 6:1.
Whose example are we to follow in forgiving? “Forbearing one another, and
forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any: even as Christ forgave you so
also do ye." Col. 3:13.
Did God anciently forbid grudging? “Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge
against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself: I am the
Lord." Lev. 19:18.
What says the New Testament? Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye
be condemned; behold, the Judge standeth before the door." James 5:9.
Does one forgive who holds a grudge? Some when pretending to forgive, say: "I
can forgive, but I cannot forget." Such "hold a grudge."
What petition in the Lord's prayer, is the only one to which the Master adds a
comment? “And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors." "For if ye forgive men
their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you; but if ye forgive not men their
trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses." Matt. 6: 12, 14, 15.