Chapter 53
The Last Nation Noticed in Prophecy
===================================

What symbol is introduced in Rev. 12:3? "And there appeared another wonder in
heaven; and, behold, a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven
crowns upon his heads."
At what time in the world's history did this symbol apply? “And there appeared
a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and
upon her head a crown of twelve stars." Rev. 12:1.
What did the dragon design to do to the child about to be born to the church?
“And the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devour
her child as soon as it was born." Rev. 12:4.
What became of the child? “And she brought forth a man child, who was to rule
all nations with a rod of iron: and her child was caught up unto God, and to His throne."
Rev. 12:5.
NOTE. - Christ the Lord is the only one to whom the prophecy can apply (Heb. 12:2).
Who sought to slay Christ as soon as He was born? “Then Herod, when he saw
that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the
children that were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and
under, according to the time which he had diligently inquired of the wise men." Matt. 2:16.
What symbol was next seen by the prophet? “And I stood upon the sand of the
sea, and saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his
horns ten crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy." Rev. 13:1.
From what did this government receive its seat and power? “And the dragon
gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority." Rev. 13:2.
NOTE.-It is an undisputed point in history that, when Constantine removed the seat of his empire
from Rome to Constantinople, in 330 A.D., the city of Rome was given up to the bishop of Rome, who, in
538, became the head of all the churches, and the corrector of heretics, by the work of Justinian, the ruling
emperor of the Romans. Thus Rome became the seat of the papacy, and the authority of the pope was derived
from the decree of the dragon power. See "Croly on the Apocalypse." pages 114-115.
What was to happen to this beast? “And I saw one of his heads as it were
wounded to death; and his deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the
beast." Rev. 13:3.
How was this wounding to be brought about? “He that leadeth into captivity
shall go into captivity: he that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword." Rev.
13:10.
Had the papacy led others into captivity? “And it was given unto him to make
war with the saints and to overcome them; and power was given him over all kindreds, and
tongues, and nations." Rev. 13:7.
NOTE. - Many millions have been martyred by the Roman Church, because they dared to differ
with her in religious opinions. See "Fox's Book of Martyrs;" "The Wars of the Huguenots;" "Buck's
Theological Dictionary," art. Persecutions; histories of the Reformation, etc.
When was the papal head wounded by being taken into captivity? In 1798, the
French army under Berthier then abolished the papacy in Rome, proclaimed a republic
there, and carried Pope Pius VI a captive from place to place till he died at Valence, France,
August 28,1799. See reading "A Remarkable Symbol." page 29.
At that time what additional symbol was seen by the prophet?” And I beheld
another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as
a dragon." Rev. 13:11.
Has the United States "come up" sufficiently to warrant the application of the
prophecy to this country? The "Centennial History of the United States" says: "The
extent of the conceded domain of the United States, in 1776, was not more than half a
million square miles. Now (1875) it is more than three million, three hundred thousand
square miles. Its population then was three million; in 1875-forty million. Today it is over
two hundred fifty million.
What do the "two horns like a lamb" represent? A horn represents a kingdom,
or a component part of a kingdom, as in Dan. 7:7, 8, 24, 25. Lamb-like horns would
indicate youthfulness, innocence, and gentleness. The "two" horns may represent the two
leading principles of the government, civil and religious liberty.
Notwithstanding the lamb-like pretensions of this power, what is it ultimately
to do? “And he spake as a dragon." Rev. 13:11.
What will he say? “Saying unto them that dwell on the earth, that they should
make an image to the beast, which had the wound by a sword, and did live." Rev. 13:14.
NOTE. - The beast "which had the wound by a sword and did live," is the papacy. That was a church
clothed with the civil power. In other words, it enforced its religious dogmas by the civil power, under pain of
confiscation of goods, imprisonment, and death.
When the image to the beast has been formed in the United States, what will
follow? “And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the
beast should both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the
beast should be killed." Rev. 13:15.
How are the people to be led to form the image to the beast?” And deceiveth
them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the
sight of the beast." Rev. 13:14.
How much power will be exercised in the matter? “And he exerciseth all the
power of the first beast before him, and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to
worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed." Rev. 13:12.
NOTE. - The "first beast before him" (the papal power) exercised the power of putting to death all
who differed with them in religious faith.
What will the two-horned beast power try to enforce on the people? “And he
causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their
right hand, or in their foreheads." Rev. 13:16.
How far is this to be carried? “And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had
the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name." Rev. 13:17.
NOTE. - That is, all who do not receive the mark are to be denied the right of citizenship. For the
characteristics of the beast itself see the following chapter (54).