Chapter 42
The Kingdoms of Grace and Glory
===============================

Give the promise which our Saviour made to the "little flock. “Fear not, little
flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom." Luke 12:32.
To what throne are we exhorted to come to find mercy? “Let us therefore come
boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of
need." Heb. 4:16.
To what other kingdom do the Scriptures call our attention? “When the Son of
man shall come in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then shall He sit upon the
throne of His glory." Matt. 25:31.
By what are men saved from sin?” For by grace are ye saved through faith; and
that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God." Eph. 2:8 (Rom. 6:23).
In the parable of the wheat and tares, what does the good seed represent? “The
field is the world; the good seed are the children of the kingdom; but the tares are the
children of the wicked one," Matt. 13:38.
Who sows the tares? “The enemy that sowed them is the Devil." Matt. 13:39.
To whom did God entrust His kingdom?” And God said, Let us make man in our
image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the
fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that
creepeth upon the earth." Gen. 1:26.
When Christ sent out His disciples, what did He tell them to preach? “And He
sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick." Luke 9:2.
In carrying out their commission, what did they preach?” And they departed,
and went through the towns, preaching the gospel, and healing everywhere." Luke 9:6.
After the loss of the first kingdom, what promise did God make to Israel, if
they would obey Him? “Now therefore, if ye will obey My voice indeed, and keep My
covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto Me above all people: for all the earth is
Mine. And ye shall be unto Me a kingdom of priests, and a holy nation." Ex. 19:5-6.
After the children of Israel were settled in Canaan, what did they request of
Samuel the prophet? “Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make
us a king to judge us like all the nations." 1 Sam. 8:5.
Upon taking the matter to God, what instruction did Samuel receive? “And the
Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee:
for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected Me, that I should not reign over
them." 1 Sam. 8:7.
Notwithstanding the perverseness of Israel, what did the lord promise to
David their king?"Thy seed will I establish forever, and build up thy throne to all
generations." Ps. 89:4.
Through whom was the throne of David to be perpetuated? “For unto us a child
is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon His shoulder: and His
name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The
Prince of Peace. Of the increase of His government and peace there shall be no end, upon
the throne of David." Isa. 9:6-7.
Who is this seed of David, the heir to his throne? “Thou shalt. .bring forth a son,
and shalt call His name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest;
and the Lord God shall give unto Him the throne of His father David." Luke 1:31, 32.
While the kingdom was still held by the Jewish kings, what prediction was
made concerning the kingdom? “And thou, profane, wicked prince of Israel, whose day
is come, when iniquity shall have an end, Thus saith the Lord God; Remove the diadem,
and take off the crown." Eze. 21:25, 26.
After the crown was taken from the Jewish king, and that kingdom had
become tributary to the Babylonians, what more was predicted concerning it? “I will
overturn, overturn, overturn it; and it shall be no more, until He come whose right it is; and
I will give it Him." Eze. 21:27.
Christ did not take that throne when on earth. Did He assume it when.
ascending to heaven, or did He occupy the Father's throne, with Him? “To him that
overcometh will I grant to sit with Me in My throne, even as I also overcame, and am set
down with My Father in His throne." Rev. 3:21.
What is He doing at the Father's right hand? “The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit
thou at My right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool." "The Lord hath sworn,
and will not repent, Thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek." Ps. 110:1, 4;
Heb. 10:12, 13.
When His priestly work is finished, what will Christ do?” Then cometh the end,
when He shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father." 1 Cor. 15:24.
When He comes to earth, on whose throne will He sit? “When the Son of man
shall come in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then shall He sit upon the throne
of His glory." Matt. 25:31 (Rev. 11:15).
Then what will He say to the redeemed? “Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit
the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world." Matt. 25:34.
How will the saints appear after reaching that kingdom? “Then shall the
righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father." Matt. 13:43.