Chapter 61
Christ's Second Coming
======================

What wonderful promise did Jesus make concerning His Second Advent? “Let
not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in Me. In My Father's house are
many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto Myself;
that where I am, there ye may be also." John 14:1-3.
What will follow the signs of Christ's coming?” And then shall they see the Son
of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory." Luke 21:27.
At His ascension, how was Christ's return promised? “And while they looked
steadfastly toward heaven as He went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel;
which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus,
which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen Him
go into heaven." Acts 1:10, 11.
With what words does Paul express the blessed hope of Christ's Second
Advent for His people? “Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the
great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ." Titus 2:13.
What does Peter say about this awaited event? “We have not followed
cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our
Lord Jesus Christ, but were eye-witnesses of His majesty." 2 Peter 1:16.
When He returns, will most of the inhabitants of earth be prepared to meet
Him? “Then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes
of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with
power and great glory." Matthew 24:30. "Behold, He cometh with clouds; and every eye
shall see Him, and they also which pierced Him: and all kindreds of the earth shall wail
because of Him." Revelation 1:7.
Why will many not be prepared for this important event? “But and if that evil
servant shall say in his heart, My Lord delayeth His coming," and shall begin to smite his
fellow servants, and to eat and drink with the drunken; the Lord of that servant shall come
in a day when he looketh not for Him, and in an hour that he is not aware of, and shall cut
him asunder, and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites: there shall be weeping and
gnashing of teeth." Matthew 24:48-51.
What will the world be doing when Christ returns in the clouds of heaven for
His own? “But as the days of Noe were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be. For
as in the days that were before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and
giving in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark, and knew not until the flood
came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be." Verses
37-39. "Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought,
they sold, they planted, they builded," but the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it
rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all. Even thus shall it be in the
day when the Son of man is revealed." Luke 17:28-30.
Who is it that blinds men to the message about salvation through Jesus
Christ? “In whom the god of this world [Satan] hath blinded the minds of them which
believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should
shine unto them." 2 Corinthians 4:4.
How important is it that we now prepare our lives to meet Christ when He
returns? “Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall
be; but we know that, when He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as
He is." 1 John 3:2.
Will the return of Christ be a time of reward? “For the Son of man shall come in
the glory of His Father with His angels; and then He shall reward every man according, to
his works." Matthew 16:27. "And, behold, I come quickly; and My reward is with Me, to
give every man according as his work shall be." Rev. 22:12.
Who will receive the promised salvation when Christ returns? “So Christ was
once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for Him shall He appear the
second time without sin unto salvation." Heb. 9:28.
What strong motivation should His return have on our lives right now? “We
know that, when He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He is. And
every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as He is pure." 1 John 3:2, 3.
To whom are these crowns of life promised? “For I am now ready to be offered,
and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my
course, I have kept the faith: henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness,
which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto
all them also that love His appearing." 2 Tim. 4:6-8.
What will the waiting ones say when Jesus comes the second time? “And it
shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have waited for Him, and He will save us:
this is the Lord; we have waited for Him, we will be glad and rejoice in His salvation." Isa.
25:9.
Has the exact time of Christ's coming been revealed? “But of that day and hour
knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but My Father only." Matt. 24:36.
In view of this fact, how does Christ tell us to prepare for that glorious event?
‘Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come." Verse 42.
What warning has Christ given that we might not be taken by surprise when
He returns? “And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged
with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you
unawares. For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth.
Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these
things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man." Luke 21:34-36.
What special attribute should the waiting ones develop? “Be patient therefore,
brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious
fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain. Be
ye also patient; stablish your hearts: for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh." James 5:7,
8.
What has been the attitude of too many Christians toward the Second Advent
of Christ? The belief of the Christian Church in the second coming of Christ appears in
Christian literature from the origin of the so called Apostles' Creed down through to very
recent times.