Chapter 148
Healing
===========

What bearing did the regarding of God's commandments formerly have on
the removal of sickness?
"Thou shalt therefore keep the commandments, ...and the Lord will take away from
thee all sickness." Deut. 7:11-15.
When through disobedience King Jeroboam's hand withered, how was it
restored to strength?
"And the man of God besought the Lord, and the king's hand was restored him
again, and became as it was before." 1 Kings 13:6.
When Miriam was afflicted with leprosy, what did Moses do in her behalf?
"And Moses cried unto the Lord, saying, Heal her now, a God, I beseech thee."
Num. 12:13.
Are there cases when it is best not to apply to earthly physicians?
"And Asa in the thirty and ninth year of his reign was diseased in his feet, until his
disease was exceeding great; yet in his disease he sought not to the Lord, but to the
physicians." 2 Chron. 16:12.
When Elijah prayed for the restoration of a child, what was the result?
"And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and cried unto the Lord, and
said, a Lord my God, I pray thee, let this child's soul come into him again. And the Lord
heard the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived." 1
Kings 17:21, 22.
When Hezekiah prayed for restoration from sickness, what answer was
returned to him?
"Thus saith the Lord, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have
seen thy tears: behold, I will add unto thy days fifteen years." Isa. 38:5.
What was a part of the work of Christ while He was here on earth?
"And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the
gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of sickness and all manner of disease
among the people." Matt. 4:23.
What impressive words does Matthew use to show further the burden that the
Saviour took in this matter?
"Himself took our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses." Matt. 8:17.
When the woman touched the hem of Jesus' garment and was healed of her
infirmity , what gave effect to the touch?
"And He said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort; thy faith hath made thee
whole,. go in peace." Luke 8:48.
Is the gift of healing given to the church of Christ?
"And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly
teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of
tongues." 1 Cor. 12:28.
How is this gift exercised?
"Is there any sick among you? let him call for the elders of the church; and let them
pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord." James 5:14.
If the sick one is restored to health, by what power is it accomplished?
"And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if
he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him." James 5:15.
Did Christ bestow the gift of healing upon His disciples?
"Then He called His twelve disciples together, and gave them power and authority
over all devils, and to cure diseases. And He sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and
to heal the sick." Luke 9:1, 2. "Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the
hour of prayer... And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they
laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask alms of them that
entered into the temple; who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple asked an
alms... Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have, give I thee: In the
name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand, and
lifted him up; and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. And he leaping
up, stood, and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and
praising God." Acts 3:1-8.
Was this commission to cease with the twelve apostles?
"And He said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every
creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be
damned. And these signs shall follow them that believe: In my name... they shall lay hands
on the sick, and they shall recover." Mark 16:15-18.
What special work is necessary for one who expects to be healed?
"Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be
healed." James 5:16.
Why is it that in some cases persons are not healed in answer to prayer?
"Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your
lusts." James 4:3.
Why could not the disciples, on a certain occasion, cast the demon out of a
child?
"Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast him out?
And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief." Matt. 17:19, 20.
NOTE.-The evident reason why so few are now healed in answer to prayer, is because one or
another of the parties, and perhaps all of them, have failed to fulfill the conditions prescribed. If one has, by
some willful course of his own, brought a sickness upon himself, and he gives no evidence that he would do
better if he should be raised up, the Lord cannot consistently interfere in such a case. Or if the individual
wishing help, knows of faults of which he is guilty, and does not confess them, and resolve, by the help of
God, to put them away, he has no reason to expect the special manifestation of God's power to raise him up.
There may also be cases where it not in accotdance with the will of God that the sick should be raised to
health. While asking for the things that are desired, we should have the same mind which was in Christ, who
prayed, "Nevertheless, not My will, but Thine, be done."