Chapter 143
The Lord's Supper
=================

What was the character of Zacharias, and Elizabeth? “And they were both
righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord
blameless." Luke 1:6.
What was obligatory under the old covenant besides the ten commandments?
“Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service, and a worldly
sanctuary." Heb. 9:1.
In what did these ordinances consist? “Which stood only in meats and drinks,
and divers washings, and carnal ordinances, imposed on them until the time of
reformation." Heb. 9:10.
What did these prefigure? “For the law having a shadow of good things to come,
and not the very image of the things, can never with those sacrifices which they offered
year by year continually, make the comers thereunto perfect." Heb. 10:1.
Why was it necessary for them to offer these sacrifices? “And if anyone of the
common people sin through ignorance, while he doeth somewhat against any of the
commandments of the Lord concerning things which ought not to be done, and be guilty; or
if his sin, which he hath sinned, come to his knowledge; then he shall bring his offering, a
kid of the goats, a female without blemish, for his sin which he hath sinned." Lev. 4:27, 28.
Could these offerings take away their sins? “For it is not possible that the blood
of bulls and of goats should take away sins." Heb. 10:4.
To what did they look forward? “Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, he
saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldst not, but a body hast thou prepared Me." Heb.
10:5.
Where were the ten commandments written under the old covenant? “And the
Lord said unto Moses, Come up to Me into the mount, and be there: and I will give thee
tables of stone, and a law, and commandments which I have written; that thou mayest teach
them." Ex. 24:12.
What was to be done with these commandments when the new covenant came
in force? “But this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel: After
those days, saith the Lord, I will put My law in their inward parts, and write it in their
hearts." Jer. 31:33 (Heb. 8:8-10).
Having God's commandments in the heart, should we also keep Christ and
His sufferings in mind? “By which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I
preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that
which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures." 1 Cor.
15:2, 3.
Is it enough simply to believe in the death of Christ? "For if we believe that
Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with
Him." 1 Thess. 4:14.
By what act do we commemorate the resurrection of Christ? “Buried with Him
in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with Him through the faith of the operation of God,
who hath raised Him from the dead." Col. 2:12.
But what should always precede baptism? “Then Peter said unto them, Repent,
and be baptized everyone of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins." Acts
2:38.
Toward whom must repentance be exercised? “And have taught you publicly,
and from house to house, testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks, repentance
toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ." Acts 20:20, 21.
Then by being baptized, what does one signify to the world? “For as many of
you as have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ." Gal. 3:27.
How is the death of Christ to be commemorated? “For as often as ye eat this
bread, and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till He come." 1 Cor. 11:26.
When and by whom was this ordinance instituted? “The Lord Jesus, the same
night in which He was betrayed, took bread; and when He had given thanks, He brake it,
and said, Take, eat; this is My body, which is broken for you: this do in remembrance of
Me." 1 Cor. 11:23, 24.
What is signified by the cup? “After the same manner also He took the cup, when
He had supped, saying, This cup is the new testament in My blood: this do ye, as oft as ye
drink it, in remembrance of Me." 1 Cor. 11:25.
What was done by Christ and the disciples after partaking of the communion?
“And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives." Matt. 26:30.
If one refuses to obey God, can he be profited by partaking of the
communion? “Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord,
unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord." 1 Cor. 11:27.