Chapter 13
Christ the Way of Life
======================

In what condition are all men naturally?
"But the Scripture hath concluded all under sin." Gal. 3:22. "For all have sinned,
and come short of the glory of God." Rom.3:23.
What is the wages of sin?
"The wages of sin is death." Rom. 6:23.
What is the gift of God?
"The gift of God is eternal life." Rom. 6:23.
In whom is now this gift?
"This is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in His Son."
1 John 5:11.
How many may have this life?
"And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And
let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely." Rev.
22: 17. "He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life." 1
John 5:12.
How must one have Christ?
"Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be
reprobates?" 2 Cor. 13:5.
How do we really have Christ in us unto eternal life?
"He that believeth on Me hath everlasting life." John 6:47.
What follows the reception of Christ?
"I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me; and the life which I now live in the flesh I
live by the faith of the Son of God." Gal.2:20.
How are all regarded before they are quickened with Christ?
"God, who is rich in mercy, for His great love wherewith He loved us, even when
we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ." Eph. 2:4-5.
What is this spiritual transition from death to life called?
"Being born again, not of corruptible seed; but of incorruptible, by the word of
God, which liveth and abideth forever." 1 Peter 1:23.
When our first parents transgressed, what was done to prevent them from
living forever in sin?
"And now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and
live forever." "So He drove out the man; and He placed at the east of the garden of Eden
cherubim, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life."
Gen. 3:22, 24.
By whom did the Lord say that Satan, the originator of sin, should be
destroyed?
"I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed;
it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel." Gen. 3:15.
For what purpose did Christ die?
"Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, He also Himself
likewise took part of the same; that through death He might destroy him that had the power
of death, that is, the Devil." Heb. 2:14.
How early was it determined that Christ should die?
"And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written
in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world." Rev. 13:8.
Through whom was Abraham to receive the promise of God?
"The Lord appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will give this land." Gen.
12:7.
How far was the promise to Abraham to extend?
"And in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed." Acts 3:25.
To whom does the "seed" of the Old Testament refer?
"Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not, And to seeds,
as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is Christ." Gal. 3:16.
How did the Lord regard Abraham's faith?
"Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness." Rom. 4:3.
Since man had sinned, if righteousness could come by the law, then what must
we conclude?
"If righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain." Gal. 2:21.
Why have all been reckoned under sin?
"But the Scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise by faith of Christ
Jesus might be given to them that believe." Gal. 3:22.
What does Christ become to the true believer?
"Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life; no man cometh unto the
Father, but by Me." John 14:6.
How then do all become children of God?
"For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus." Gal. 3:26.
If children of God, what is our prospect?
"If children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ." Rom. 8:17.
"In His humanity Christ partook of our sinful, fallen nature. If not, then He was not
"made like unto His brethren," was not "in all points tempted like as we are," did not
overcome as we have to overcome, and is not, therefore, the complete and perfect Saviour
man needs and must have to be saved. The idea that Christ was born of an immaculate or
sinless mother, inherited no tendencies to sin, and for this reason did not sin, removes Him
from the realm of a fallen world, and from the very place where help is needed. On His
human side, Christ inherited just what every child of Adam inherited–a sinful nature. On
the divine side, from His very conception He was begotten and born of the Spirit. And all
this was done to place mankind on vantage-ground, and to demonstrate that in the same
way everyone who is "born of the Spirit" may gain like victories over sin in his own sinful
flesh. Thus each one is to overcome as Christ overcame. Rev. 3:21. Without this birth there
can be no victory over temptation, and no salvation from sin. John 3:3-7."