Chapter 122
Saving Faith
============

Give the Bible definition of faith. “Now faith is the substance of things hoped for,
the evidence of things not seen." Heb. 11:1.
When coming to God, what is it necessary to believe concerning Him? “But
without faith it is impossible to please Him; for he that cometh to God must believe that He
is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." Heb. 11:6.
How may we know that God exists? “The heavens declare the glory of God; and
the firmament showeth His handiwork." Ps. 19:1 (Rom. 1:19, 20).
How may we have faith in Him? “So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by
the word of God." Rom. 10:17.
Are the promises of God of any value to those who do not believe them? "I will
therefore put you in remembrance, though ye once knew this, how that the Lord, having
saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed them that believed not."
Jude 5 (Heb. 3:14).
In whom must we believe in order to be saved? “For God so loved the world,
that He gave His only Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have
everlasting life." John 3:16.
When we believe on the Son of God, what evidence do we have that our sins
are forgiven? “He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself: he that
believeth not God hath made Him a liar; because he believeth not the record that God gave
of His Son." 1 John 5:10.
What is the nature of this witness? “The Spirit itself beareth witness with our
spirit, that we are the children of God." Rom. 8:16.
When we have this witness, what does it do for us? “Therefore being justified by
faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ." Rom. 5:1.
Upon what conditions has God promised the forgiveness of sin? “But if we walk
in the light, as He is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of
Jesus Christ His Son cleanseth us from all sin." "If we confess our sins, He is faithful and
just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." 1 John 1:7, 9.
Does the Bible warrant one in believing that he receives what he asks for,
before he is conscious of possessing it? “Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye
desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them." Mark 11:24.
How may one learn to develop patience in waiting on God? “My brethren, count
it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations; knowing this, that the trying of your faith
worketh patience." James 1:2, 3.
When in affliction, what ought all to believe? “And we know that all things work
together for good to them that love God." Rom. 8:28.
What kind of faith is that which is unaccompanied with works? “For as the
body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also." James 2:26.
If one knows the he is constantly disobeying God, can he have real living
faith? “Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God. And
whatsoever we ask, we receive of Him, because we keep His commandments, and do those
things that are pleasing in His sight." 1 John 3:21, 22.
How much may one hope to receive, who asks with a doubtful mind? “Let not
that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord." James 1:7.
What was the cause of Peter's sinking after he had started to meet the Saviour
on the stormy sea? “And immediately Jesus stretched forth His hand, and caught him, and
said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?" Matt. 14:31.
What may one constantly have, by growing into the fullness of faith? “Now the
God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope,
through the power of the Holy Ghost." Rom. 15:13.