Chapter 158
Riches
===========

From what source comes the power to get wealth?
"But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God; for it is He that giveth thee power to
get wealth." Deut. 8:18.
How may we honor God?
"Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the first- fruits of all thine increase."
Prov. 3:9.
What caution is given concerning riches? “If riches increase, set not your heart
upon them." Ps. 62:10.
Can riches be retained to our own hurt?
"There is a sore evil which I have seen under the sun, namely, riches kept for the
owners thereof to their hurt." Eccl. 5:13.
Give an example of this.
"Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to
the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow Me, But when the
young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions." Matt.
19:21, 22,
Is it easy for the rich to enter the kingdom of God?
"And Jesus looked round about, and saith unto His disciples, How hardly shall they
that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!" Mark 10:23.
What charge is given to the rich?
"Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high minded, nor trust in
uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy." 1 Tim.
6:17.
What are they further instructed to do?
"That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to
communicate; laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to
come, that they may lay hold on eternal life." l Tim. 6:18, 19.
What dangers attend the getting of riches?
"But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish
and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition." 1 Tim. 6:9.
What makes rich without adding sorrow?
"The blessing of the Lord, it maketh rich, and He addeth no sorrow with it." Prov.
10:22.
How are true riches obtained?
"By humility and the fear of the Lord are riches, and honor, and life." Prov. 22:4.
Does happiness depend on earthly possessions?
"And He said unto them, Take heed, and beware of covetousness; for a man's life
consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth." Luke 12:15.
Will silver or gold be able to deliver in the day of wrath?
"Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them in the day of the
Lord's wrath." Zeph. 1:18.
How did Moses esteem the reproach of Christ?
"Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt; for he
had respect unto the recompense of the reward." Heb. 11:26.
Mention two classes of rich men.
"There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing; there is that maketh himself
poor, yet hath great riches." Prov. 13:7.
Give an example of the first class.
"And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man
brought forth plentifully: And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I
have no room where to bestow my fruits? And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my
barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say
to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink,
and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of
thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided?" Luke 12:16-20
What lesson may we learn from this parable?
"So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God." Luke
12:21.
What fearful words are addressed to the rich oppressor?
"Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are moth eaten. Your gold and silver
is cankered; and the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as
it were fire. Ye have heaped treasure together for the last days." James 5:2, 3.
How may the poor of this world be counted rich?
"Hearken, my beloved brethren; hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in
faith, and heirs of the kingdom which He hath promised to them that love Him?" James 2:5.
Can we estimate the worth of the eternal inheritance?
"For since the beginning of the world men have not heard, nor perceived by the ear,
neither hath the eye seen, O God, beside Thee, what He hath prepared for him that waiteth
for Him." Isa. 64:4.