Chapter 119
Growth in Grace
===============

With what words does the Apostle Peter close his second epistle? “But grow in
grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ." 2 Peter 3:18.
How may grace and peace be multiplied in believers? “Grace and peace be
multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God, and of Jesus our Lord." 2 Peter 1:2.
What has our heavenly Father given to us, to enable us to become partakers of
the divine nature? “Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises:
that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that
is in the world through lust." 2 Peter 1:4.
What graces, or qualities of character, are we to add in our character
building? “Add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; and to knowledge
temperance [self-control]; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; and to
godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity." Verses 5-7.
NOTE. - Faith is the first round in the Christian ladder, the first step Godward. "He that cometh to
God must believe." Hebrews 11:6. But an inoperative faith is useless. "Faith without works is dead." James
2:20. To be of value, there must be coupled with faith virtue, or moral excellence.
What does the Bible tell us about charity? “Charity suffereth long, and is kind;
charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, Doth not behave itself
unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; Rejoiceth not in
iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things,
endureth all things." 1 Corinthians 13:4-7 "And above all things have fervent charity
among yourselves: for charity shall cover the multitude of sins." 1 Peter 4:8.
What is another name for charity? “And above all these things put on charity,
which is the bond of perfectness." Colossians 3:14.
What is the result of cultivating these eight precious attributes? “For if these
things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful
in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ." 2 Peter 1:8.
What is the condition of one who lacks these graces? “But he that lacketh these
things is blind, and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old
sins." Verse 9.
What promise is given to those who will patiently add grace to grace? “If ye do
these things, ye shall never fall." Verse 10.