Chapter 98
The Powers That Be
==================

Who should be subject to civil government? “Let every soul be subject unto the
higher powers. For there is no power but of God." Romans 13:1.
By whom are the powers ordained? “The powers that be are ordained of God."
Verse 1.
What does one resist who resists just civil authority? “Whosoever therefore
resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they that resist shall receive to
themselves damnation." Verse 2.
What are the proper sphere and work of civil authorities? “For rulers are not a
terror to good works, but to the evil... If thou do that which is evil, be afraid; for he beareth
not the sword in vain: for he is the minister of God, a revenger to execute wrath upon him
that doeth evil." Verses 3-4.
Who is it that receives the enforcement of law? “Knowing this, that the law is
not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient ." 1 Timothy 1:9.
How should Christians respect civil authority? “Put them in mind to be subject
to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work." Titus
3:1. "Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether it be to the
king, as supreme; or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment
of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well... Honour all men. Love the
brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king." 1 Peter 2: 13-17. "For this cause pay ye tribute
also: for they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing. Render
therefore to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due; custom to whom custom; fear to
whom fear; honour to whom honour." Romans 13:6, 7.
In what words does Christ reveal that there are two spheres of authority: one
that belongs to earthly governments, and another, higher one, that belongs to God
alone? “Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the
things that are God's." Matthew 22:21.
To whom alone did Jesus say that worship can and must be given to? “Thou
shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve." Matthew 4:10.
What decree did King Nebuchadnezzar once make to all the citizens of his
empire? “That at what time ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery,
dulcimer, and all kinds of musick, ye fall down and worship the golden image that
Nebuchadnezzar the king hath set up: and whoso falleth not down and worshippeth shall
the same hour be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace." Daniel 3:5, 6.
What answer did the three faithful Hebrew captives give? "O Nebuchadnezzar,
we are not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so, our God whom we serve is able
to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us... But if not... we will not
serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up." Verses 16-18.
What did Nebuchadnezzar then do? “He commanded the most mighty men that
were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the
burning fiery furnace." Verse 20.
After their miraculous deliverance, what did Nebuchadnezzar then declare to
everyone? “Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who hath sent his
angel, and delivered his servants that trusted in him, and have changed the king's word, and
yielded their bodies, that they might not serve nor worship any god, except their own God."
Verse 28.
In what way alone were the envious leaders of Medo-Persia able to complain
about Daniel? “We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it
against him concerning the law of his God." Daniel 6:5.
What religious law did they succeed in urging the king to enact? “That
whosoever shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days, save of thee, a king, he
shall be cast into the den of lions." Verse 7.
Did Daniel obey this new governmental edict? “He went into his house, and his
windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three
times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did a foretime." Verse 10.
What was done to Daniel for disobeying it? “Then the king commanded, and
they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of lions." Verse 16.
What did Darius say when Daniel was taken out of the lions' den? "O Daniel,
servant of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee
from the lions?" Verse 20.
What was Daniel's reply to the king? "O king, live for ever, My God hath sent
His angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before
Him innocency was found in me; and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt." Verses
21-2.
What parting command did Christ give to His disciples? “Go ye into all the
world, and preach the gospel to every creature." Mark 16:15.
What counter command did the Jewish authorities in Jerusalem soon give
them? “And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the
name of Jesus." Acts 4:18.
What reply did Peter and John give to these authorities? “Whether it be right in
the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye. For we cannot but
speak the things which we have seen and heard." Verses 19-20.
For continuing to preach the Word of God, after being forbidden to do so,
what was the result? “Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him,
(which is the sect of the Sadducees) and were filled with indignation, and laid their hands
on the apostles, and put them in the common prison." Acts 5:17, 18.
Did God then reveal Himself to be on the side of governmental authorities
when they did wrong? “But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors, and
brought them forth, and said, Go stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words
of this life." Verses 19-20.
When the apostles were called before the council again, what question did the
high priest ask them? “Did not we straitly command you that ye should not teach in this
name? and, behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this
man's blood upon us." Verse 28.
What reply did the apostles make to the authorities? “We ought to obey God
rather than men." Verse 29.
Who is higher than the "higher powers" of this earth? “If thou seest the
oppression of the poor, and violent perverting of judgment and justice in a provine, marvel
not at the matter: for He that is higher than the highest regardeth; and there be higher than
they." Ecclesiastes 5:8.
Because Mordecai refused to bow down before Haman, a leading official of
Medo-Persia, what emperial decree did Haman succeed in enacting? “And the letters
were sent by posts into all the king's provinces, to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish, all
Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day, even upon the thirteenth
day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to take the spoil of them for a
prey." Esther 3:13.
What is religion? “The recognition of God as an object of worship, love, and
obedience." Webster. Other definitions equally good are: "The duty which we owe to our
Creator, and the manner of discharging it." "Man's personal relation of faith and obedience
to God."
In religious things, whom alone dare we call "Father”? “And call no man your
father upon the earth: for one is your Father, which is in heaven." Matthew 23:9.
When tempted to bow down before Satan, what reply did Christ make? “Then
saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord
thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve." Matthew 4:10. (See Deuteronomy 6:13; 10:30.)
To whom alone, then, is each one accountable in religion? “So then everyone of
us shall give account of himself to God." Romans 14:12.
What do those do, therefore, who make men accountable to them in matters of
religion? They put themselves in the place of God. (See 2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4.)
Why is it, that in areas of religion, Christ declared that men must not be called
masters? “Neither be ye called masters: for one is your Master, even Christ." Matthew
23:10.
To whom, then, as servants of God, are we responsible in matters of faith and
worship? “Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? to his own master he standeth
or falleth." Romans 14:4.
Whose servants are we not to be? "Ye are bought with a price; be not ye the
servants of men." 1 Corinthians 7:23.
Where must all men finally appear to render account of their lives and
actions? “For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; that everyone may
receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or
bad." 2 Corinthians 5:10.