Chapter 6
Creation and the Creator
========================

Who is the Creator of the heavens and the earth?
"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth." Genesis 1:1.
What were the means that God used to bring the heavens and the earth into
existence?
"By the word of the Lord were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the
breath of His mouth. For He spake, and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast."
Psalm 33:6-9.
Through whom did God create all things?
"For by Him [the Son] were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in
earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or
powers: all things were created by Him, and for Him." Colossians 1: 16. "All things were
made by Him [literally, "through Him"] ; and without Him was not any thing made that was
made." John 1:3. (See also Hebrews 1:1,2.)
What was God's purpose in creating the earth?
"For thus saith the Lord that created the heavens; God Himself that formed the earth
and made it; He hath established it, He created it not in vain, He formed it to be inhabited.
" Isaiah 45:18.
How does the Bible describe the creation of man?
"And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life; and man be- came a living soul." "And the Lord God caused a
deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: and He took one of his ribs, and closed up the
flesh instead thereof; and the rib, which the Lord God had taken from man, made He a
woman, and brought her unto the man." Genesis 2:7,21-22.
In whose image was man created?
"So God created man in His own image, in the image of God created He him; male
and female created He them." Genesis 1:27.
What authority did God originally give to him?
"Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and
over the cattle, and over all the earth." the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all
the earth." Verse 26. "What is man, that Thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that
Thou visitest him? For Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned
him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of Thy
hands; Thou hast put all things under his feet." Psalm 8:4-6.
God gave man an ideal home. What was it?
"And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there He put the man
whom He had formed." "And the Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of
Eden to dress it and to keep it." Genesis 2:8,15.
What was the food that God gave to perpetuate immortality?
"And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the
sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of
knowledge of good and evil." Verse 9.
What simple plan was used by God to test the loyalty and obedience of Adam
and Eve?
"And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou
mayest freely eat: but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it:
for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die." Verses 16-17.
What is the power that upholds all the universe?
"Upholding all things by the word of His power." Hebrews 1:3.
As we gaze upon the heavens, what do they declare unto us?
"The heavens declare the glory of God... Day unto day uttereth speech." Psalm
19:1-2.
What is it that the visible Creation reveals to us?
"For the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen,
being understood by the things that are made, even His eternal power and Godhead; so that
they are without excuse." Romans 1:20.
An obedient Christian is whose workmanship?
"For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God
hath before ordained that we Should walk in them." Ephesians 2:10.
Looking beyond the present sin-cursed earth, to what promise may we fix our
gaze?
"For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and the former shall not be
remembered, nor come into mind." Isaiah 65:17. (See Revelation 21:1.)
There is an important difference between the true God and all false gods.
What is it?
"Thus shall ye say unto them, The gods that have not made the heavens and the
earth, even they shall perish from the earth. and from under these heavens." Jeremiah
10:11.
To whom alone are we to give our worship?
"O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the Lord our Maker."
Psalm 95:6.
What is the great truth that makes all men on earth brothers?
"Have we not all one Father? hath not one God created us? why do we deal
treacherously every man against his brother, by profaning the covenant of our fathers?"
Malachi 2:10.