Chapter 39
The Outpouring of the Spirit
============================

Just prior to His ascension to heaven, what did Jesus tell His disciples to
await? “And, behold, I send the promise of My Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of
Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high." Luke 24:49.
With what did He say they would soon be baptized? "Ye shall be baptized with
the Holy Ghost not many days hence." Acts 1:5.
For what important work was this baptism to prepare them? “But ye shall
receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto
Me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the
earth." Acts 1:8.
Following the outpouring of the Spirit, what preaching results followed?
“Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said,... Men and brethren,
what shall we do? Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized everyone of you in
the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy
Ghost... Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and the same day there
were added unto them about three thousand souls." Acts 2:37-41. "And by the hands of the
apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people;...and believers were the
more added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women." Acts 5:12-14. "And the word
of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a
great company of the priests were obedient to the faith." Acts 6:7.
How did persecution affect the preaching of the gospel? “And at that time there
was a great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem; and they were all
scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea and Samaria, except the apostles...
Therefore they that were scattered abroad went every where preaching the word." Acts
8:1-4.
What Old Testament prophecy was fulfilled at the time of the outpouring of
the Spirit? “But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and said,... These
are not drunken, as ye suppose... But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel;
And It shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of My Spirit upon all
flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy ." Acts 2:14-18. (See Joel 2:28-29.)
What expressions in Joel's prophecy indicate a double fulfillment of this
outpouring? “Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord your God: for He
hath given you the former rain moderately, and He will cause to come down for you the
rain, the former rain, and the latter rain in the first month." Joel 2:23. (See also Hosea 6:3.)
In the time of the latter rain, for what are we told to pray? “Ask ye of the Lord
rain in the time of the latter rain; so the Lord shall make bright clouds, and give them
showers of rain, to everyone grass in the field." Zechariah 10:1.
How is the closing gospel work under the outpouring of the Spirit described
by John the revelator? “After these things I saw another angel come down from heaven,
having great power; and the earth was lightened with His glory." Revelation 18:1.
What is the message of this angel? “And he cried mightily with a strong voice,
saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and the
hold of every unclean and hateful bird." Verse 2.
What did Peter on the day of Pentecost tell his hearers to do? “And with many
other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this untoward
generation." Acts 2:40.
What similar call and appeal will be made under the final outpouring of the
Holy Spirit? “And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her My people,
that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues. For her sins have
reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities." Revelation 18:4-5.
Section 6
Bible Prophecies