Chapter 5
Christ in All the Bible
=======================

Of whom does Christ Himself tell us that the Scriptures speak about?
"Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they
which testify of Me." John 5:39.
NOTE.-"Search the Old Testament Scriptures: for they are they that testify of Christ. To find Him in
them is the true and legitimate end of their study. To be able to interpret them as He interpreted them is the
best result of all Biblical learning."-Dean Alford.
About whom did Moses and the Old Testament prophets write?
"Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him of whom Moses
in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph." John 1:45.
NOTE.-In her translation of the Old Testament Scriptures, Helen Spurrell expressed the following
wish for all who should read her translation: "May very many exclaim, as the translator has often done when
studying numerous passages in the original, I have found the Messiah!
Who revealed beforehand the death and resurrection of Christ?
"0 fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken: ought not
Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into His glory?" Luke 24:25,26.
Does all of Scripture tell us about Jesus?
"And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, He expounded unto them in all the
scriptures the things concerning Himself." Luke 24:27.
Where in the Bible is the first promise of the Redeemer?
"And the Lord God said unto the serpent, I will put enmity between thee and the
woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise
his heel." Genesis 3:14,15.
In what words was this great truth explained to Abraham?
"In thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed." Genesis 22:18. (See also
Genesis 26:4; 28:14.)
To whom did this promised seed refer?
"Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not, And to seeds,
as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is Christ. " Galatians 3:16.
Whom did God promise would especially guide Israel to the Promised Land?
"Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way, and to bring thee into
the place which I have prepared." Exodus 23:20.
Who was the Rock that went with them?
"And did all drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of that spiritual Rock that
followed [literally, "went with"] them: and that Rock was Christ." 1 Corinthians 10:4.
Where was the promised Saviour to be born?
"But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, though thou be little among the thousands of
Judah, yet out of thee shall He come forth unto Me that is to be Ruler in Israel; whose
goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting." Micah 5:2.
In what Old Testament prophecy are the life, suffering, and death of Christ
foretold?
In the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah.
Which passage of Scripture foretold the price of Christ's betrayal?
"So they weighed for My price thirty pieces of silver." Zechariah 11:12. (See
Matthew 26:15.)
Christ's dying words were written a thousand years before His death. Where
are they found?
"My God, My God, why has Thou forsaken Me?" Psalm 22:1. (See Matthew
27:46.) "Into Thy hands I commit My spirit." Psalm 31:5. (See Luke 23:46.)
In what passage do the Psalms also foretell Christ's resurrection?
"For Thou wilt not leave My soul in hell; neither wilt Thou suffer Thine Holy One
to see corruption." Psalm 16:10. (See Acts 2:25-31.)
What words does Daniel use to describe Christ's receiving of His kingdom?
"I saw in the night visions, and behold, One like the Son of man came with the
clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of days, and they brought Him near before Him.
And there was given Him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and
languages, should serve Him: His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not
pass away, and His kingdom that which shall not be destroyed." Daniel 7:13-14. (See also
Luke 1:32-33; 19:11-12; Revelation 11:15.)
How does the book of Psalms describe Christ's Second Advent?
"Let the floods clap their hands: let the hills be joyful together before the Lord; for
He cometh to judge the earth: with righteousness shall He judge the world, and the people
with equity." Psalm 98:8-9. "Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall
devour before Him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about Him. He shall call to the
heavens from above, and to the earth, that He may judge His people." Psalm 50:3,4.
Section 2
Sin: Its Origin and End