Chapter 31
The Obedience of Faith
======================

What command did the God of heaven give to Abraham? “Now the Lord had
said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's
house, unto a land that I will shew thee. " Genesis 12:1.
Did Abraham obey this command? “So Abram departed, as the Lord had spoken
unto him; and Lot went with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he
departed out of Haran." Verse 4.
Of what was Abraham's obedience the result, or fruit? “By faith Abraham,
when he was called, obeyed to go out unto a place which he was to receive for an
inheritance; and he went out, not knowing whither he went." Hebrews 11:8, R.V.
What later command did the Lord give to Abraham? “And he said, Take now
thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and
offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of ."
Genesis 22:2.
Upon what ground were the previous promises made to Abraham later
renewed? “And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou hast done
this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son: that in blessing I will bless thee,
and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which
is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies; and in thy seed
shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed My voice." Verses
16-18.
What was it that enabled Abraham to obey the great test? “By faith Abraham
when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offered up his
only begotten son." Hebrews 11: 17.
Of what were the works of Abraham an evidence? “Was not Abraham our father
justified by works, when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar?" James 2:21.
By his actions, or works, what was shown to be perfect? "Seest thou how faith
wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect?" Verse 22.
What is genuine faith? “In Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth any thing,
nor uncircumcision; but faith which worketh by love." Galatians 5:6.
What is the purpose of the grace of Christ? “Through whom we received grace
and apostleship, unto obedience of faith among all nations, for His name's sake." Romans
1:5, R.V.
What was the effect of the Apostles' preaching upon the hearers? “And the
word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly;
and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith." Acts 6:7.
How highly does God regard obedience in the lives of men? “And Samuel said,
Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of
the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." 1
Samuel 15:22.
What example of obedience to the will of the Father has Christ given to us?
“And being found in fashion as a man, He humbled Himself, and became obedient unto
death, even the death of the cross." Philippians 2:8.
At what great cost did even He learn the lesson of obedience? “Though He were
a Son, yet learned He obedience by the things which He suffered." Hebrews 5:8.
To whom did Christ become the author of salvation? “And being made perfect,
He became the Author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey Him." Verse 9.
How complete should this obedience be? “Casting down imaginations, and every
high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity
every thought to the obedience of Christ." 2 Corinthians 10:5.
What important fact did Jesus mention about the Pharisees? “And He said
unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your own
tradition." Mark 7:9.
What will be the future of those who refuse to obey the gospel of Christ?” And
to you who are troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven
with His mighty angels, in flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God, and
that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ." 2 Thessalonians 1:7, 8.
What is the result of faithfully obeying the truth by the enabling grace of
Christ? “Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto
unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently." 1
Peter 1:22.
"If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land." Isaiah 1:19.