Chapter 123
Promises to the Overcomer
=========================

What general promise is given to the overcomer? "He that overcometh shall
inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be My son." Rev. 21:7.
What is it to overcome? To vanquish, to conquer, to be victorious. - Webster.
What must be overcome to realize the promises to the overcomer? "Be not
overcome of evil, but overcome evil." Rom. 12:21. "For whatsoever is born of God
overcometh the world." 1 John 5:4.
What is meant by overcoming the world? “Whosoever is born of God doth not
commit sin." 1 John 3:9.
What, then, must we exercise in order to claim the promise of inheriting all
things? “But godliness is profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that now is,
and of that which is to come." 1 Tim. 4:8.
Who alone can overcome? “Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that
believeth that Jesus is the Son of God?" 1 John 5:5.
By what means are we enabled to overcome? “This is the victory that
overcometh the world, even our faith." 1 John 5:4. "And they overcame him [Satan, the
originator and disseminator of sin, verse 9] by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of
their testimony." Rev. 12:11.
Who gives us strength to overcome? and through whom is it bestowed? “But
thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ." 1 Cor. 15:57.
"In all these things we are more than conquerors through Him that loved us." Rom. 8:37.
What is one important purpose of the promises given in the Bible? “Whereby
are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises; that by these ye might be
partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through
lust." 2 Peter 1:4.
What is one of the greatest promises given to the overcomer? "And this is the
promise that He hath promised us, even eternal life." 1 John 2:25.
Name some of the precious things promised to the overcomer.(1) He shall eat of
the tree of life. Rev. 2:7.(2) He "shall not be hurt of the second death." Rev. 2:11.(3) He
shall eat of the hidden manna, and receive a white stone, and "in the stone a new name
written which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it." Rev. 2:17.(4) He shall have
power over the nations. Rev. 2:26.(5) He shall be clothed in white raiment; and his name
shall not be blotted out of the book of life, but shall be confessed before the Father and the
angels. Rev. 3:5.(6) He shall be a pillar in the temple of God forever, and Christ will write
upon him God's name, and the name of the New Jerusalem, and his own new name. Rev.
3:12.(7) He shall sit with Christ on His throne. Rev. 3:21.(8) He "shall receive the crown of
life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love Him." James 1:12.
Have any of those who in the past have sought to receive the promises, as yet
come into their possession? “And these all [those enumerated in Heb. 11] , having
obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise." Heb. 11:39.
When will these precious promises be realized? "Ye have need of patience, that,
after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise. For yet a little while, and
He that shall come, will come, and will not tarry." Heb. 10:36, 37.
What manner of persons ought we to be, as we see the time approaching when
the promises are to be realized? “Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things,
be diligent that ye may be found of Him in peace, without spot, and blameless." 2 Peter
3:14.
What will be the condition of those who realize the promises? “After this I
beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds,
and people, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white
robes, and palms in their hands; And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God
which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb. And all the angels stood round about the
throne, and about the elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces,
and worshipped God, Saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving,
and honour, and power, and might, be unto our God for ever and ever. Amen." Revelation
7:9-12.