Chapter 3
Power in the Word
=================

What was the way in which God brought the heavens into existence?
"By the word of the Lord were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the
breath of his mouth... For He spake, and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast."
Psalm 33:6-9.
What is it that Christ uses to uphold all things?
"Upholding all things by the word of His power." Hebrews 1:3.
Of what great truth are some willingly ignorant?
"For this they willingly are ignorant of, that by the word of God he heavens were of
old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water: whereby the world that then
was, being overflowed with water, perished." 2 Peter 3:5,6.
By what are the present heavens and earth reserved for a similar fate?
"But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word are kept in store,
reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men." 2 Peter 3:7.
What other passage of Scripture also reveals that creative power is exercised
through the word of God?
"Let them praise the name of the Lord: for He commanded, and they were created."
Psalm 148:5.
What change is wrought out in the life of one who is in Christ?
"Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature [literally, "a new
creature"] : old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new." 2 Corinthians
5:17.
Jesus described this same experience in what other passage?
"Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be
born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God." John 3:3.
By what agency is this new creation or new birth accomplished?
"Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God,
which liveth and abideth for ever." 1 Peter 1:23.
What is the first creative commandment that is mentioned in the Bible?
"And God said, Let there be light: and there was light." Genesis 1:3.
Did God also command another light to shine out of darkness?
"For God, who commanded the light to shine our of darkness, hath shined in our
hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ." 2
Corinthians 4:6.
What was it about Christ's teaching that astonished people?
"And they were astonished at His doctrine: for His word was with power." Luke
4:32.
What important fact testified to the power of Christ's word?
"And they were all amazed, and spake among themselves, saying, What a word is
this! for with authority and power He commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out."
Luke 4:36.
In ancient times, how did God bring healing to His people?
"He sent His word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions."
Psalm 107:20.
In what way did the Roman centurion reveal his strong faith in Christ?
"The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that Thou shouldest come
under my roof: but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed." Matthew 8:8.
What did Christ say is the seed of the kingdom of God?
"The seed is the word of God." Luke 8:11.
Where does God want Christ's word to dwell?
"Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom." Colossians 3:16.
Could those who believed not on Jesus Christ receive this important seed?
"Ye have not His word abiding in you: for whom He hath sent, Him ye believe not."
John 5:38.
How does the Word of God work in the life of the believer?
"For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because, when ye received the
word of God which ye heart of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth,
the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe." 1 Thessalonians 2:13.
What new nature is imparted to us through the promises of God?
"Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these
ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the
world through lust." 2 Peter 1:4.
What is it that can cleanse the lives of believers in Christ?
"Now are ye clean through the word which I have spoken unto you." John 15:3.
How can a young man cleanse his ways?
"Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto according
to Thy word." Psalm 119:9.
What is the result of accepting the Word of God into the heart and life?
"Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee." Psalm
119:11. (See also Psalm 17:4.)