Chapter 142
Reverence for the House of God
==============================

How does the Lord regard the things that have been devoted, or dedicated, to
His service? “Every devoted thing is most holy unto the Lord." Lev. 27:28.
Did Christ exhibit regard for the sanctity of God's house? “And they come to
Jerusalem; and Jesus went into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold and bought
in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money changers, and the seats of them that
sold doves; and would not suffer that any man should carry any vessel through the temple.
And He taught, saying unto them, Is it not written My house shall be called of all nations
the house of prayer? but ye have made it a den of thieves." Mark 11:15-17.
How can it be proved that the words of Scripture, quoted by Christ, do not
apply to the Jewish temple alone? “Even them [the sons of the stranger] will I bring to
My holy mountain, and make them joyful in My house of prayer; their burnt offerings and
their sacrifices shall be accepted upon Mine altar; for Mine house shall be called a house of
prayer for all people." Isa. 56:7.
Give another prophetic statement of this matter, relating to the same time.
“For, from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same, My name shall be
great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto My name, and a
pure offering; for My name shall be great among the heathen, saith the Lord of hosts." Mal.
1:11.
How should we conduct ourselves in the house of God? “But as for me, I will
come into thy house in the multitude of Thy mercy; and in Thy fear will I worship toward
Thy holy temple." Ps. 5:7.
Has Christ given us an inducement to worship Him in His house? “For where
two or three are gathered together in My name, there am I in the midst of them." Matt.
18:20.
If Christ is present, how ought His people to regard the place which He thus
honors? “And the Captain of the lord's host said unto Joshua, loose thy shoe from off thy
foot; for the place whereon thou standest is holy." Joshua 5:15.
What words of caution does the "Preacher" give us? “Keep thy foot when thou
goest to the house of God." Eccl. 5:1.
Name one of the reasons why God rejected His chosen people. “For the children
of Judah have done evil in My sight, saith the lord; they have set their abominations in the
house which is called by My name, to pollute it." Jer. 7:30.
What instruction had the lord given His people regarding their treatment of
His earthly dwelling place? "Ye shall keep My Sabbaths, and reverence My sanctuary; I
am the Lord." Lev. 19:30.
How are all required to serve God? “Serve God acceptably, with reverence and
godly fear." Heb. 12:28.
In what frame of mind does David desire to worship? and what does he call
the temple? “But as for me, I will come into Thy house in the multitude of thy mercy; and
in Thy fear will I worship toward Thy holy temple." Ps. 5:7.
Where, does he say, is God especially to be feared? “God is greatly to be feared
in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about Him." Ps.
89:7.
Should any performance which does not relate to the service of God, be
conducted in a house dedicated to His service?
NOTE. - It is God's plan that His people come together in His house to worship and praise Him, and
to study His Holy Word. Within those sacred precincts on the Sabbath day, they are not to transact common
business, or even sacred business that could be done on another day of the week. Far too often the people of
God reserve for the Sabbath hours various activities which could be done on other days.