Chapter 163
Exaltation
===========

Who is exalted above all that exists?
"For thou, Lord, art high above all the earth; thou art exalted far above all gods." Ps.
97:9. "Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: let thy glory be above all the earth." Ps.
57:5.
Why should God be thus exalted?
"Thou, even thou, art Lord alone; thou hast made heaven, the heaven of heavens,
with all their host, the earth, and all things that are therein, the seas, and all that is therein,
and thou preservest them all; and the host of heaven worshipeth thee." Neh. 9:6.
How high is Christ exalted?
"The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree. Him
hath God exalted with His right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour." Acts 5:30, 31.
Who will be exalted by God?
"He that shall humble himself shall be exalted." Matt. 23:12.
What, then, must precede exaltation?
"Before honor is humility." Prov. 15:33.
What is the foundation of true humility?
"Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up." 1 Cor. 13:4.
What is necessary, therefore, in order that we may obtain exaltation?
"Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest
in the kingdom of heaven." Matt. 18:4.
In what only should we desire to be exalted?
"For thou [Lord] art the glory of their strength: and in thy favor our horn shall be
exalted." Ps. 89:17.
What means does God sometimes employ to keep us from self exaltation?
"And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the
revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me,
lest I should be exalted above measure." 2 Cor. 12:7.
By what means may self exaltation be overcome?
"For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the
pulling down of strongholds; casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth
itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the
obedience of Christ." 2 Cor. 10:4, 5.
What are these weapons of our warfare?
The girdle of truth, the breastplate of righteousness, the sandals of peace, the shield
of faith, the helmet of salvation, the sword of the Spirit. Eph. 6:13-17.
What caused Satan's fall, and brought into existence all the sin and evil which
are in the world?
"How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! how art thou cut
down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations! For thou hast said in thine heart, I will
ascend into heaven; I will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the
mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north: I will ascend above the heights of the
clouds; I will be like the Most High." Isa. 14:12-14.
What is the most striking example of self exaltation found in the annals of
history?
"Let no man deceive you by any means; for that day shall not come, except there
come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition; who
opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshiped; so that he
as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God." 2 Thess. 2:3, 4.
NOTE. - Satan exalted himself above the stars of God, i.e., the angels, and wanted to be equal with
Christ; but the "man of sin," the papacy, has gone beyond this, and exalted himself even above the God of the
universe by presuming to change His eternal and immutable law. Dan.7:25.
What will be the end of self exaltation?
"Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased." Matt. 23:12. "For the day of the
Lord of hosts shall be upon every one that is proud and lofty, and upon everyone that is
lifted up; and he shall be brought low." Isa. 2:12.
When will the humble be exalted?
"Wait on the Lord, and keep His way, and He shall exalt thee to inherit the land
when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it." Ps. 37:34.