Chapter 126
Cheerfulness
============

What is said of the heavy hearted, and the effect of cheering words upon such?
“Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop; but a good word maketh it glad." Prov.
12:25.
What is the influence of cheerfulness upon the sad and despondent? “A merry
heart doeth good like a medicine; but a broken spirit drieth the bones." Prov. 17:22.
What did Job exclaim in a time of sore trouble, when well meaning friends
came to him with words of reproach? “I have heard many such things: miserable
comforters are ye all." Job 16:2.
What did he say would have been the case had their circumstances been
reversed? “I also could speak as ye do: if your soul were in my soul's stead, I could heap
up words against you, and shake mine head at you: but I would strengthen you with my
mouth, and the moving of my lips should assuage your grief." Job 16:4, 5.
Are not those who have suffered and been comforted of God, best able to
comfort others? “Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of
mercies, and the God of all comfort, who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may
be able to comfort them, which are in any trouble by the comfort where- with we ourselves
are comforted of God." 2 Cor. 1:3, 4.
What beautiful promise is written for the upright in heart? “Light is sown for
the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart." Ps. 97:11.
What should be the language of the heart that has experienced help from
God? “Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing: thou has put off my sackcloth,
and girded me with gladness." Ps. 30:11.
What should be the spirit of our service toward God? “Serve the Lord with
gladness: come before His presence with singing." Ps. 100:2.
Mention a special cause for good cheer. “Son, be of good cheer; thy sins be
forgiven thee." Matt. 9:2. "Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins
are covered." Rom. 4:7
For what does Isaiah say he will greatly rejoice? “I will greatly rejoice in the
Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God; for He hath clothed me with the garments of
salvation; He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh
himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels." Isa. 61:10.
Should the Christian be joyful in God under adverse and trying
circumstances? “Blessed are ye when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate
you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son
of man's sake. Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy; for behold, your reward is great in
heaven." Luke 6:22, 23.
What does the Saviour say to us? “These things I have spoken unto you, that in
Me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have
overcome the world." John 16:33.
What special cause for encouragement is given us by virtue of Christ's victory
over the world? “To him that overcometh, will I grant to sit with Me in My throne, even as
I also overcame, and am set down with My Father in His throne." Rev. 3:21.
How constant should the Christian's rejoicing be? “Rejoice in the Lord always,
and again I say, Rejoice." Phil. 4:4.