Chapter 68
Righteousness and Life
======================

What assurance is given to every believer in Christ?” For God so loved the
world, that He gave His only be- gotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not
perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16.
What wonderful truth is revealed in the gospel message? “For therein is the
righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith: as it is written, The just shall live by
faith." Romans 1:17.
What was brought to light through the gospel? “Who hath abolished death, and
hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel." 2 Tim. 1:10.
How closely are righteousness and life connected? “In the way of righteousness
is life; and in the pathway thereof there is no death." Proverbs 12:28.
Finding righteousness, what else do we find? “He that followeth after
righteousness and mercy findeth life, righteousness, and honour." Proverbs 21:21.
Who alone can give us the grace that leads to eternal life? “That as sin hath
reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by
Jesus Christ our Lord." Romans 5:21.
What do the Psalms declare God's commandments to be?” All Thy
commandments are righteousness." Psalms 119:172.
What does Jesus say that those commandments are? “And I know that His
commandment is life everlasting." John 12:50.
What does the prophet Jeremiah declare Christ to be? "And this is His name
whereby He shall be called, THE LORD OUR RIGHTEOUSNESS." Jer. 23:6.
What did Christ tell us was essential to eternal life?” I am the way, the truth, and
the life." John 14:6.
How do we receive righteousness? “And He said unto him, Why callest thou Me
good? there is none good but One, that is, God: but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the
commandments." Matthew 19:17.
How do we receive eternal life? “For if by one man's offence death reigned by
one; much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness
shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ." Romans 5:17.
How do we obtain eternal life?
"For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ
our Lord." Romans 6:23. "Christ is the source of every right impulse. He is the only one
that can implant in the heart enmity against sin. Every desire for truth and purity, every
conviction of our own sinfulness, is an evidence that His Spirit is moving upon our hearts.
“Jesus has said, 'I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto Me.' Christ must
be revealed to the sinner as the Saviour dying for the sins of the world, and as we behold the
Lamb of God upon the cross of Calvary, the mystery of redemption begins to unfold to our
minds, and the goodness of God leads us to repentance. In dying for sinners, Christ
manifested a love that is incomprehensible; and as the sinner beholds this love, it softens
the heart, impresses the mind, and inspires contrition in the soul.
"It is true that men sometimes become ashamed of their sinful ways, and give up
some of their evil habits, before they are conscious that they are being drawn to Christ. But
whenever they make an effort to reform, from a sincere desire to do right, it is the power of
Christ that is drawing them. An influence of which they are unconscious works upon the
soul, and the conscience is quickened, and the outward life is amended. And as Christ
draws them to look upon His cross, to behold Him whom their sins have pierced, the
commandment comes home to the conscience. The wickedness of their life, the deep seated
sin of the soul, is revealed to them. They begin to comprehend something of the
righteousness of Christ, and exclaim, What is sin, that it should require such a sacrifice for
the redemption of its victim? Was all this love, all this suffering, all this humiliation
demanded, that we might not perish, but have everlasting life?" Happiness Digest, p. 30.