Chapter 151
Vows
===========

Does God require that we shall fulfill our promises?
"When thou shalt vow a vow unto the Lord thy God, thou shalt not slack to pay it,"
for the Lord thy God will surely require it of thee; and it would be sin in thee." Deut. 23:21.
Does a partial fulfillment meet His requirements?
"If a man vow a vow unto the Lord, or swear an oath to bind his soul with a bond; he
shall not break his word, he shall do according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth."
Num. 30:2.
Why is God so very particular about promises?
Because He is faithful in performing His promises, and He wants His people to be
like Him. "That which is gone out of thy lips thou shalt keep and perform," even a free will
offering, according as thou hast vowed unto the Lord thy God, which thou hast promised
with thy mouth." Deut. 23:23.
What does He call those who are slack in paying their vows?
"When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for He hath no pleasure in
fools: pay that which thou hast vowed." Eccl. 5:4.
Will God excuse vows that are made without duly considering whether or not
we can perform them?
"Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay.
Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou before the angel, that it was
an error; wherefore should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the work of thine
hands?" Eccl. 5:5, 6.
What will God do for us, if we are faithful in fulfilling our promises?
"Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the Most High, and call upon
Me in the day of trouble; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me." Ps. 50:14, 15.
Is it wise to consider beforehand whether we are able to perform our vows?
"It is a snare to the man who devoureth that which is holy, and after vows to make
inquiry." Prov. 20:25.
Is it not better not to vow?
"Vow, and pay unto the Lord your God: let all that be round about Him bring
presents unto Him that ought to be feared." Ps. 76:11.
What did Jacob do after the Lord had appeared unto him?
"And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this
way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, so that I come again to
my father's house in peace; then shall the Lord be my God; and this stone, which I have set
for a pillar, shall be God's house; and of all that thou shalt give me, I will surely give the
tenth unto thee." Gen. 28:20-22.
Did the Lord forget Jacob's vow?
"And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob, ...I am the God of
Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, and where thou vowedst a vow unto Me; now
arise, get thee out from this land, and return unto the land of thy kindred." Gen. 31:11-13.
And did Jacob keep his promise?
"Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with him, Put away the
strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and change your garments; and let us arise,
and go up to Bethel; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day
of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went." Gen. 35:2, 3.
Is the Lord particular as to what we vow to Him?
"But cursed be the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and
sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing; for I am a great King, saith the Lord of hosts, and
My name is dreadful among the heathen." Mal. 1:14.
What does such a vow betray in him who brings the offering? Contempt.
"And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? and if ye offer the lame and
sick, is it not evil? offer it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee, or accept
thy person? saith the Lord of hosts." Mal. 1:8.
For what other reason has God a right to demand the best? He gives
everything.
"For she did not know that I gave her corn, and wine, and oil, and multiplied her
silver and gold." Hos. 2:8.
To whom do we belong?
"What! know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you,
which ye have of God, and ye are not your own? for ye are bought with a price: therefore
glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God's." 1 Cor.6:19, 20.
What inducement does the lord hold out to those who desire to comply strictly
with His requirements?
"Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in Mine house,
and prove Me now herewith, saith the lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of
heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. And
I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground;
neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the field, saith the lord of hosts."
Mal. 3:10, 11.
If God should not grant us prosperity, what should we do?
"Although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the vines; the labor
of the olive shall fail, and the fields shall yield no meat; the flock shall be cut off from the
fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord, I will joy in the
God of my salvation." Hab. 3:17, 18.
Section 15
Dangers and Warnings