Chapter 135
Submission
===========

To whom do we owe unqualified submission? “Submit yourselves therefore to
God." James 4:7.
Why are we under obligation to submit to God? “Thus saith the Lord, the Holy
One of Israel, and His Maker, ...I have made the earth, and created man upon it... There is
no God else beside Me; a just God and a Saviour; there is none beside Me. Look unto Me,
and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is none else." Isa.
45:11-22.
What constitutes submission to God? “Casting down imaginations and every
high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity
every thought to the obedience of Christ." 2 Cor. 10:5.
What will be the condition of one who is thus submissive to God? He will be
"filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding." Col. 1:9.
What is the will of God? “For this is the will of God, even your sanctification." 1
Thess. 4:3. "Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves
likewise with the same mind; for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin; that
he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of
God." 1 Peter 4:1, 2.
What is fulfilled in us when we live not in the flesh? “That the righteousness of
the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit." Rom. 8:4.
Then what is the course of one who is submissive to God? He walks after the
Spirit, i.e., brings forth the "fruit of the Spirit" (Gal. 5:22-24), or in other words, fulfills
"the righteousness of the law," which constitutes the will of God. 1 Peter 4:2.
What should we bring into subjection to God? “But I keep under my body and
bring it into subjection." 1 Cor. 9:27. "I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of
God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is
your reasonable service." Rom. 12:1. "Bringing into captivity every thought to the
obedience of Christ." 2 Cor. 10:5. "Glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are
God's." 1 Cor. 6:20.
Which member of the body requires the greatest exertion, together with the
grace of God, to bring into submission? “The tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly
evil, full of deadly poison." "If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and
able also to bridle the whole body." James 3:8, 2.
What is the prayer of one who is submissive to God? "Thy will be done." Matt.
6:10.
How was submission exemplified in the life of Christ? "He [Jesus] humbled
Himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross." Phil. 2:8. "He was
oppressed, and He was afflicted, yet He opened not His mouth; He is brought as a lamb to
the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so He openeth not His mouth."
Isa. 53:7. Read also Matt. 27:26-50.
What is said about submission to worldly powers and authorities? “Put them in
mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates." Titus 3:1.
Why are we required to do this? “Let every soul be subject unto the higher
powers. For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God.
Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God." Rom. 11:1, 2.
"Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, ...for so is the will of
God." 1 Peter 2:13-15.
Does Peter mean that we should submit to the ordinances of men, even when
these are contrary to the express command of God? Let Peter himself answer. "We
ought to obey God rather than men." Acts 5:29. "Whether it be right in the sight of God to
hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye." Acts 4:19.
What noted example have we of obedience or submission to God rather than
man? The three worthies in the fiery furnace. Dan. 3.
Then what is really meant by being subject to worldly rulers and ordinances
of men? “For this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not steal,
Thou shalt not bear false witness, Thou shalt not covet; and if there be any other
commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying; namely, Thou shalt love thy
neighbor as thyself." Rom. 13:9.
How do we stand related to one another with regard to submission? “Likewise,
ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you, be subject one to another,
and be clothed with humility." 1 Peter 5:5.
What seems to be the reason for this requirement? Submission cultivates
humility, a Christian virtue of high value. It is the humble to whom God "giveth grace," and
whom He will in due time exalt. 1 Peter 5:5, 6.
What should be the attitude of a wife to her husband? “Wives, submit
yourselves unto your own husbands." Col. 3:18.
What is this submission? “To be sober, to love their husbands, to love their
children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands."
Titus 2:4, 5.
Does this submission permit domination on the part of the husband?
“Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them." Col. 3:19. "Husbands, love
your wives, even as Christ also loved the church." Eph. 5:25.
How far should a wife submit to her husband? “Wives, submit yourselves unto
your own husbands, as it is fit in the Lord." Col. 3:18.
In what should children be submissive to parents? “Children, obey your parents
in all things; for this is well pleasing unto the Lord." Col. 3:20.
What is said about the submission of servants to masters? “Servants, obey in all
things your masters according to the flesh; not with eye service, as men pleasers; but in
singleness of heart, fearing God." Col. 3:22.