Chapter 144
The Ordinance of Humility
=========================

At the last Passover, what did the Saviour say to His disciples? “And He said
unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer; for I say
unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God." Luke
22:15, 16.
What spirit was manifested by the disciples? “And He said unto them, The kings
of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them are
called benefactors. But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest among you, let him be as
the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve." Luke 22:25, 26.
What did the Saviour say of His own position? “For whether is greater, he that
sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? is not he that sitteth at meat? but I am among you as he
that serveth." Luke 22:27.
With such knowledge of His own power and authority, what excellent example
did Christ give of His humility? “He riseth from supper, and laid aside His garments; and
took a towel, and girded Himself, After that He poureth water into a basin, and began to
wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith He was girded," John
13:4, 5.
On approaching Peter, what did that disciple say? “Then cometh He to Simon
Peter; and Peter saith unto Him, lord, dost thou wash my feet?" John 13:6.
And what was the reply? “Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou
knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter." John 13:7.
How did Peter feel about submitting to the Saviour's proposal? “Peter saith
unto Him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou has
no part with Me." John 13:8.
Learning that his salvation depended on his submission to Christ, what did
Peter then wish done? “Simon Peter saith unto Him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my
hands and my head." John 13:9.
Was this really necessary? Jesus saith to him, He that is washed needeth not save
{only] to wash his feet, but is clean every whit: and ye are clean, but not all." John 13:10.
After performing the ceremony, what did Christ say had been His object?
“For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you." John 13:15.
What did He say they should therefore do to one another? "Ye call Me Master
and Lord, and ye say well; for so I am. If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your
feet, ye a/so ought to wash one another's feet." John 13:13, 14.
What promise is given to those who carry out this ordinance? “If ye know these
things, happy are ye if ye do them." John 13:17.
How was the Oriental custom of feet washing invariably conducted? “Let a
little water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree."
Gen. 18:4 (Gen.19:2) (Judges 19:21) (2 Sam. 11:8) (Luke 7:44).
As late as A.D. 65, what was one test applied by the apostle to determine
whether a widow was worthy to be taken into a certain circle? “If she have brought up
children, if she have lodged strangers, if she have washed the saints' feet, if she have
relieved the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every good work." 1 Tim. 5:10.
How does Christ regard an act performed toward the humblest of His
disciples? “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these My brethren, ye have
done it unto Me." Matt. 25:40.