Chapter 156
Unbelief
===========

By what are men justified?
"Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus
Christ." Rom. 5:1.
Then how are the just to live?
"Now the just shall live by faith: but if any man draw back, My soul shall have no
pleasure in him." Heb. 10:38.
Why did not Israel of old attain to the law of righteousness?
"Because they sought it not by faith." Rom. 9:32.
When one told Christ of the disciples' failure to heal his afflicted son, what did
He say of that generation?
"He answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you?
how long shall I suffer you? bring him unto Me." Mark 9:19.
What did the Saviour say to Thomas when He met him, because he did not
believe the testimony of his brethren that had seen Christ alive after His crucifixion?
"Reach hither thy finger, and behold My hands; and reach hither thy hand, and
thrust it into My side; and be not faithless, but believing." John 20:27.
NOTE.-If men are justified by faith, and are to live by faith, it follows that to be unbelieving is not to
be justified, and consequently not to live in the sense brought to view in the Scriptures. The Lord rebuked
Thomas for his unbelief, because he would not accept the testimony of so many credible witnesses as the
other ten disciples. How much more reprehensible is that unbelief which holds out against the present cloud
of witnesses of the goodness and power of God to save sinners!
In view of the great cloud of witnesses of faith presented by the apostle in the
eleventh chapter of Hebrews, what does Paul exhort all to do?
"Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses,
let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with
patience the race that is set before us." Heb. 12:1.
NOTE.-The "every weight" here introduced includes those traits of character and habits of life that
would clog one's path, and be a hindrance in running successfully the Christian race. These are to be laid
aside. But there is one other thing that is here considered more than a weight: it is a sin, and one that so easily
besets all. It is the sin of unbelief. To be unbelieving is to be sinful.
Why were most of the children of Israel prohibited from entering the
promised land?
"And to whom sware He that they should not enter into His rest, but to them that
believed not? So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief." Heb. 3:18, 19.
How was their unbelief regarded, and how did it affect God?
"But with whom was He grieved forty years? was it not with them that had sinned,
whose carcasses fell in the wilderness?" Heb. 3:17.
What lesson does the apostle exhort us to draw from the course of the
Israelites?
"Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left us of entering into His rest, any of
you should seem to come short of it." Heb. 4:1.
NOTE.-God does not change. If He was grieved at the unbelief of the Israelites, and refused them
admittance to Canaan in consequence, He cannot permit us to enter the heavenly rest as long as we indulge in
unbelief.
What should we all labor to do?
"Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same
example of unbelief." Heb. 4:11.
Should one lose heart when trying to be a Christian, even though he feels that
God is chastising him?
"My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art
rebuked of Him." Heb. 12:5.
Who are they that seem to have the greatest amount of affliction?
"For whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom He
receiveth." Heb. 12:6.
If one has no chastisement to bear, how may he regard himself?
"But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards,
and not sons." Heb. 12:8.
When the disciples became almost discouraged at one of Christ's sayings, and
asked, "Who then can be saved?" What answer did Christ make?
"But Jesus beheld them, and said unto them, With men this is impossible; but with
God all things are possible." Matt. 19:26.
When God made a promise to Abraham that it seemed almost impossible to
fulfill, how did the patriarch receive it?
"He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief; but was strong in faith,
giving glory to God." Rom. 4:20.
For what was Abraham's faith under these circumstances counted?
"For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him
for righteousness." Rom. 4:3.
What should be the burden of one's prayer, who is troubled with unbelief?
"Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief." Mark 9:24.
What do the Scriptures say of him who believes that he receives the things for
which he asks?
"Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that
ye receive them, and ye shall have them." Mark 11:24.