Chapter 159
Presumption
===========

What is the definition of presumption?
"The act of believing upon probable evidence, or taking for granted; belief upon
incomplete proof; opinion. The act of venturing beyond due bounds; forward,
venturesome, overconfident, or arrogant opinion or conduct; unreasonable confidence." -
Webster.
How does God look upon presumption, as indicated by His dealing with
ancient Israel?
"But the soul that doeth aught presumptuously, whether he be born in the land, or a
stranger, the same reproacheth the Lord; and that soul shall be cut off from among his
people." Num. 15:30.
If a prophet of old presumed to speak in the name of God that which he had
not commanded, what was the result?
"But the prophet, which shall presume to speak a word in My name, which I have
not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other gods, even that
prophet shall die." Deut. 18:20.
What befell the Israelites when, having reached the promised land, they
attempted to fight against the Canaanites without God's consent?
"But they presumed to go up unto the hilltop: nevertheless the ark of the covenant
of the Lord, and Moses departed not out of the camp, Then the Amalekites came down, and
the Canaanites which dwelt in that hill, and smote them, and discomfited them, even unto
Hormah." Num. 14:44, 45.
What was withdrawn from the antediluvians because they had persisted in
their evil course?
"And the Lord said, My Spirit shall not always strive with man." Gen. 6:3.
NOTE. God would not have withdrawn His Spirit from them had they not been insulting Him by
doing what they knew was wrong. In other words, they were sinning willfully.
Of what presumptuous act were men guilty soon after the flood?
"And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto
heaven." Gen. 11:4.
What did the Lord say of them?
"And the Lord said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language and
this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have
imagined to do." Gen. 11:6.
What befell them in consequence of their presumption?
"The Lord did there confound the language of all the earth; and from thence did the
Lord scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth." Gen. 11:9.
What befell Nadab and Abihu for their presumption in offering strange fire
that the Lord had not commanded?
"And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censer, and put
fire there in, and put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the Lord, which He
commanded them not. And there went out fire from the Lord, and devoured them, and they
died before the Lord." Lev. 10:1, 2.
How was the little horn, the papacy, to show its presumption?
"And he [the little horn] shall speak great words against the Most High, and shall
wear out the saints of the Most High, and think to change times and laws." Dan. 7:25.
What is this power, therefore, called by the apostle?
"And that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition; who opposeth, and exalteth
himself above all that is called God." 2 Thess. 2:3, 4.
What does the psalmist call the sin of presumption?
"Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion
over me; then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression." Ps.
19:13.
What admonition does the apostle give concerning our course toward the
truth?
"And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of
redemption." Eph. 4:30.