Chapter 93
The Lord's Day
==============

On what foundation is the Christian church built? “And are built upon the
foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone."
Eph. 2:20.
By whom were all things created? “Which from the beginning of the world hath
been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ. " Eph. 3:9.
When was the creation finished? “And God saw everything that He had made,
and, behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day. Thus,
the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them." Gen. 1:31; 2:1.
What did the Creator do on the seventh day? “And on the seventh day God
ended His work which He had made; and He rested on the seventh day from all His work
which He had made." Gen. 2:2.
NOTE.-If all things were made by Jesus Christ (John 1:3, 10; Col. 1:16), then He rested on the first
seventh day from His labor of the creation Of the world, just the same as did the Father.
After resting from His creative work on that seventh day, what did the
Creator do? “And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it; because that in it He had
rested from all His work which God created and made." Gen. 2:3. John 1:3, 10, says that
not only was the world made by Christ, but that without Him was not anything made that
was made.
For whom did Christ say the Sabbath was made?” And He said unto them, the
Sabbath was made for man." Mark 2:28.
What is Christ's relation to the Sabbath?” Therefore the Son of man is Lord also
of the Sabbath." Mark 2:28.
How much honor is due to Christ? “All men should honor the Son, even as they
honor the Father." John 5:23.
Did Christ keep the Sabbath?” And He came to Nazareth, where He had been
brought up: and, as His custom was, He went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and
stood up for to read." Luke 4:16. "I have kept My Father's commandments." John 15:10.
When the Saviour predicted the destruction of Jerusalem by the Romans, and
the consequent flight of the disciples from all Judea, how did He urge them to regard
the Sabbath in that flight? “But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on
the Sabbath day." Matt. 24:20.
Did the followers of Christ keep the Sabbath after His death? “And they
returned and prepared spices and ointments; and rested the Sabbath day according to the
commandment." Luke 23:56.
What did they do on the next day? and what day of the week was it ?"Now
upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulcher,
bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them." Luke 24:1.
NOTE. - Then the Sabbath "according to the commandment," which was kept by Christ and His
disciples, was the day preceding the first day, or Sunday.
What day does the commandment say is the Sabbath?” But the seventh day is
the Sabbath of the Lord thy God." Ex. 20:10.
How enduring are the commandments? “The works of His hands are verity and
judgment; all His commandments are sure. They stand fast forever and ever, and are done
in truth and uprightness." Ps. 111:7, 8.
What did Christ say of the commandments? “It is easier for heaven and earth to
pass, than one tittle of the law to fail." Luke 16:17.
What was Christ to do to the law when He came? “The Lord is well pleased for
His righteousness' sake: He will magnify the law and make it honorable." Isa. 42:21.
What did the Saviour say about the Sabbath?” Wherefore it is lawful to do well
on the Sabbath days." Matt. 12:12.
How did the apostle Paul use the Sabbath days?” And Paul, as his manner was,
went in unto them, and three Sabbath days reasoned with them out of the Scriptures." Acts
17:2. See also Acts 13:14, 42, 44; 16:13; 18:1-4, 11.
On what day was John in the Spirit? “I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day." Rev.
1:10.
NOTE. - In view of what the Saviour has said of being Lord of the Sabbath day, there can be no
reasonable doubt that the Sabbath made by Christ in Eden, which He blessed and sanctified for man, and
which He kept during His life, and commanded His disciples to keep even in their hasty flight from Judea, is
the Lord's day and the true Christian Sabbath.