Chapter 117
Spiritualism
============

What is Spiritualism defined to be? “A belief in the frequent communication of
intelligence from the world of spirits, by means of physical phenomena, commonly
manifested through a person of special susceptibility, called a medium." Webster.
Did this doctrine exist in ancient times? “Regard not them that have familiar
spirits, neither seek after wizards, to be defiled by them: I am the Lord your God." Lev.
19:31.
How does God regard sorcerers? “And I will come near to you to judgment; and
I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers." Mal. 3:5.
What does he call the sorcerers? “Therefore hearken not ye to... your enchanters,
nor to your sorcerers; ...for they prophesy a lie unto you to remove you far from your land."
Jer. 27:9, 10.
What was the ancient law concerning witches, and those who had familiar
spirits? “A man also or woman that hath a familiar spirit, or that is a wizard, shall surely be
put to death." Lev. 20:27 (Deut. 18:10-13) (Ex. 22:18).
With what is witchcraft classed by Paul? “Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance,
emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies... I have also told you in time past, that they
which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God." Gal. 5:20, 21.
What should one do if asked to inquire of a familiar spirit? “And when they
shall say unto you, Seek unto them that have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep
and that mutter: should not a people seek unto their God?" Isa. 8:19.
Is it possible to test every spirit? “Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the
spirits whether they are of God." 1 John 4:1.
By what are we to try them? “To the law and to the testimony; if they speak not
according to this word, it is because there is no light in them." Isa. 8:20.
Should we have any confidence in signs or wonders presented by those who
would try to lead us away from God? “And the sign or the wonder come to pass, whereof
he spake unto thee, saying, Let us go after other gods, which thou hast not known, and let
us serve them; thou shalt not hearken unto the words of that prophet, or that dreamer of
dreams; for the Lord your God proveth you, to know whether ye love the Lord your God
with all your heart and with all your soul." Deut. 13:2, 3.
What course should one pursue under these circumstances? "Ye shall walk
after the Lord your God, and fear Him, and keep His commandments, and obey His voice,
and ye shall serve Him, and cleave unto Him." Deut. 13:4.
We are directed to the "law and to the testimony," by which to try these
spirits that assert to be voices from the dead. After one dies, how much does he know
of what is going on among men? “Thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away.
His sons come to honor, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he perceiveth
it not of them." Job 14:20, 21.
Does he know anything, or have any memory? “For the living know that they
shall die; but the dead know not anything, neither have they any more a reward; for the
memory of them is forgotten." Eccl. 9:5.
What does the wise man add, that forever precludes the idea that the dead
come back to earth to communicate with the living? “Also their love, and their hatred,
and their envy, is now perished; neither have they any more a portion forever in anything
that is done under the sun." Eccl. 9:6.
Then when miracles are performed by spirits purporting to be those of our
dead friends, to what may we attribute them? “For they are the spirits of devils, working
miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them
to the battle of that great day of God Almighty." Rev. 16:14.
What will be characteristic of "last day" apostasies from the faith? “Now the
Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving
heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils." 1 Tim. 4:1.
How will Satan deceive the people? “And no marvel; for Satan himself is
transformed into an angel of light." 2 Cor. 11:14.
What role will his agents assume before the end? “Therefore it is no great thing
if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness." 2 Cor. 11:15.
Will Satan try to counterfeit the coming of Christ, by signs and wonders?
“Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there; believe it not. For there
shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders;
insomuch that, if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect." Matt. 24:23, 24.
After these signs and wonders are shown, what is immediately to take place?
“The Lord shall consume with the spirit of His mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness
of His coming; even him whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and
signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that
perish." 2 Thess. 2:8-10.
What will those say then, who have maintained their love for the truth? “And
it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God, we have waited for Him, and He will save us:
this is the Lord; we have waited for Him, we will be glad and rejoice in His salvation." Isa.
25:9.