Chapter 149
Support of the Ministry
=======================

What are some of the dangers of the worldly minded?
"But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish
and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition." 1 Tim. 6:9.
What charge is given to those who have much of this world?
"Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, nor trust in
uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy." 1 Tim.
6:17.
Who claims the gold and silver of earth?
"The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith the Lord of hosts." Haggai 2:8.
Who owns all the cattle and fowls of the earth?
"For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills. I know
all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field are mine." Ps. 50:10, 11.
Man, then, really owns nothing of this world. In what capacity does he hold
property?
"For the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country, who called h is
own servants, and delivered unto them his goods." Matt. 25:14.
How does man have power to get wealth?
"But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God; for it is He that giveth thee power to
get wealth." Deut. 8:18.
What, then, should be one's attitude towards God?
"And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and
with all thy soul, and with all thy strength." Luke 10:27.
How may one show honor to God?
"Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the first fruits of all thine increase."
Prov. 3:9.
What part of one's income does the Lord claim?
"And all the tithe [tenth] of the land, whether of the seed of the land, or of the fruit
of the tree, is the Lord's: it is holy unto the Lord." Lev. 27:30.
If one withholds from God that which belongs to Him, of what sin is he guilty?
"Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed Me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed
thee? In tithes and offerings." Mal. 3:8.
How early in the history of the world do we read of tithe paying?
"For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met
Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him; to whom also
Abraham gave a tenth part of all." Heb. 7:1, 2.
Tithes were collected under the Melchisedec priesthood. Is that order of
priesthood now in existence?
"Whither the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus, made a high priest forever
after the order of Melchisedec." Heb. 6:20.
NOTE.-Abraham paid tithes under the Melchisedec priesthood. Christ our High Priest is of the same
order of priesthood. If we are Christs's, then are we Abraham's children. (Gal. 3:29.)
If we are Abraham's children indeed, what should we do?
"Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of
Abraham." John 8:39.
Did Christ, when on earth, approve of the tithing system?
"Ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier
matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith: these ought ye to have done, and not to
leave the other undone." Matt. 23:23.
What did Paul say of those who ministered in the temple of the old
dispensation?
"Do ye not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the
temple? and they which wait at the altar are partakers with the altar?" 1 Cor. 9:13.
What does he argue from this for the support of gospel ministers?
"Even so [in like manner] hath the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel
should live of the gospel." 1 Cor. 9:14.
Who only were allowed to minister at the altar?
"That no stranger which is not of the seed of Aaron, come near to offer incense
before the Lord." Num. 16:40.
NOTE.-Aaron was of the tribe of Levi. See Ex. 4:14.
What constituted the living of the Levites?
"And behold, I have given the children of Levi all the tenth in Israel for an
inheritance, for their service which they serve, even the service of the tabernacle of the
congregation." Num. 18:21.
The tenth of the herds and of the increase of the field, God claims as His own.
Lev. 27:30-32. What did the Saviour command on this point?
"Then saith He unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are
Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's." Matt. 22:21.
Who ought to feel responsible for the support of the minister?
"If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap your
carnal things?" Cor. 9:11.
Does Paul enforce this doctrine as a duty?
"For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, their duty is
also to minister unto them in carnal things." Rom. 15:27.
How much of the tithes does the Lord demand to be brought into the
store-house?
"Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house."
Mal. 3:10.
What will the Lord do for those who give Him His own?
"And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of
your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the field, saith the Lord
of hosts." Mal. 3:11.