Chapter 22
God's Willingness to Forgive
============================

In what way has God dealt with penitent sinners?
"He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our
iniquities." Ps.103:10.
Why has He dealt thus with men?
"For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is His mercy toward them that
fear Him." Ps. 103: 11.
What is God ready to do for all who call upon Him?
"For thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive; and plenteous in mercy unto all
them that call upon thee." Ps. 86:5.
When Abraham asked God to spare Sodom if He should find ten righteous
persons therein, what did the Lord say?
"And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but this once:
Peradventure ten shall be found there. And He said, I will not destroy it for ten's sake."
Gen. 18:32.
What prayer did Moses offer in behalf of Israel?
"Pardon, I beseech Thee, the iniquity of this people according unto the greatness of
Thy mercy, and as Thou hast forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now." Num.
14:19.
What reply did the Lord immediately make?
"And the Lord said, I have pardoned according to Thy word." Num. 14:20.
When David confessed his great sin, what did God do for him?
"I acknowledged my sin unto Thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will
confess my transgressions unto the Lord; and Thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin." Ps.
32:5.
Does the lord forgive sins when they are confessed to Him?
"If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse
us from all unrighteousness." 1 John 1:9.
How full is the Lord's forgiveness, when one fulfills the conditions?
"Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him
return unto the Lord, and He will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for He will
abundantly pardon." Isa. 55:7.
In what special manner has God shown His willingness to forgive the sinner?
"But God commendeth His love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners,
Christ died for us." Rom. 5:8.
What does this wonderful manifestation on the part of God, vouchsafe to us?
"He that spared not His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not
with Him also freely give us all things?" Rom. 8:32.
Why has such full provision been made?
"The Lord is not slack concerning His promise, as some men count slackness; but is
long-suffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to
repentance." 2 Peter 3:9.
When the prodigal son, in the parable, repented and turned toward home,
what did his father do?
"And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his
father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him." Luke
15:20.
Upon the son's asking to be made only a hired servant, what order was issued
in behalf of the penitent one?
"But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and
put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet: and bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and
let us eat, and be merry: For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is
found. And they began to be merry." Luke 15:22-24.
Is God willing to do for His children as earthly parents are for theirs?
"If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much
more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask Him?" Luke 11:13.
How many receive forgiveness from God?
"Everyone that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that
knocketh it shall be opened." Matt. 7:8.
Does the Lord forget the cries of those who call upon Him?
"Can a woman forget her sucking child?...Yea, they may forget, yet will I not forget
thee." Isa. 49:15.