Chapter 118
The Two Families
================

By what means may the mother largely bind home hearts together? “She
openeth her mouth with wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness." Prov. 31:26.
Is it proper to speak words of encouragement to the pains taking keeper of
home? “Her children arise up and call her blessed: her husband also, and he praiseth her."
"Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates." Prov.
31:28, 31.
Is mutual obligation enjoined in a well appointed home? “Children, obey your
parents in the Lord; for this is right. Honor thy father and mother; which is the first
commandment with promise; that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on
the earth. And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath; but bring them up in the
nurture and admonition of the Lord." Eph. 6:1-4.
In what scriptures are two families brought to view? “The field is the world; the
good seed are the children of the kingdom, but the tares are the children of the wicked one."
Matt. 13:38. "In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the Devil." 1 John
3:10.
How are the children of God manifest? “Whosoever is born of God doth not
commit sin." 1 John 3:9. "He that hath My commandments and keepeth them, he it is that
loveth Me; and he that loveth Me shall be loved of My Father, and I will love him, and will
manifest Myself to him." John 14:21.
How may the children of the wicked one be known? “He that committeth sin is
of the Devil." 1 John 3:8. "Ye are of your father the Devil, and the lusts of your father ye
will do." John 8:44.
Are there counterfeit children of God? "Having a form of godliness, but denying
the power thereof." 2 Tim. 3:5. "They profess that they know God, but in works, they deny
Him, being abominable and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate." Titus 1:16.
How may we judge between the true and the false? “Wherefore by their fruits ye
shall know them." Matt. 7:20.
To what family do they belong who are not the children of God? “And you hath
He quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, ...and were by nature the children of
wrath, even as others." Eph. 2:1-3.
If one desires to escape from the snare of the enemy, what must he do?
“Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the Devil, and he will flee from you. Draw
nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to you." James 4:7, 8.
How may we know that we are accepted of God, and thus are members of the
royal family? “But whoso keepeth His word, in Him verily is the love of God perfected;
hereby know we that we are in Him." 1 John 2:5. "And he that keepeth His commandments
dwelleth in Him and He in him, and hereby we know that He abideth in us by the Spirit
which He hath given us." 1 John 3:24.
How has God manifested His great love to the children of men? “Behold, what
manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of
God." 1 John 3:1.
How strong is His desire, and how urgent the invitation that all men should
share in this wonderful love? “And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that
heareth say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the
water of life freely." Rev. 22:17.
Will the time come when one class will forever pass out of sight? “For yet a
little while, and the wicked shall not be: yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it
shall not be." Ps. 37:10.
What is said of the universal family that remains? “And every creature which is
in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth. and such as are in the sea, and all that are in
them, heard I saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto Him that sitteth
upon the throne and unto the Lamb forever and ever." Rev. 5:13.
Section 12
Christian Growth