Chapter 125
Trusting in Jesus
=================

What did an Old Testament prophet predict of Christ? “And in that day there
shall be a root of Jesse, which shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the
Gentiles trust." Isa. 11:10. (Rom.15:12).
What were the apostles, who first trusted in Christ, to become? “That we
should be to the praise of His glory, who first trusted in Christ." Eph. 1:12.
What did the Ephesians do upon hearing the message of truth? “In whom ye
also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation." Eph. 1:13.
What returns did they receive from their proposed trust? “In whom also after
that ye believed, ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise." Eph. 1:13.
To whom does the gospel become the power of God? “For I am not ashamed of
the gospel of Christ; for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth; to
the Jew first and also to the Greek." Rom. 1:16.
But suppose one halts in his faith or trust; how is he regarded by the Lord?
“Now the just shall live by faith; but if any man draw back, My soul shall have no pleasure
in him." Heb. 10:38.
By what does one gain the victory over the world? “For whatsoever is born of
God overcometh the world; and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our
faith." 1 John 5:4.
In the struggles with temptations, if one trusts in Jesus, how will he show it?
“These things I have spoken unto you, that in Me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall
have tribulation; but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world." John 16:33.
But is there not some other help in the work of overcoming, besides a silent
trust in Christ? “And they overcame him by the blood of the lamb, and by the word of
their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death." Rev. 12:11.
But besides receiving power to overcome our foes, are there not temporal
benefits to be derived from trusting in Jesus? “For she said within herself, If I may but
touch His garment, I shall be whole. But Jesus turned Him about, and when He saw her, He
said, Daughter, be of good comfort; thy faith hath made thee whole. And the woman was
made whole from that hour." Matt. 9:21, 22. (See also Mark 10:52 and Luke 17:19).