Chapter 38
Spiritual Gifts
===============

How did God communicate with man in the Eden? “And the Lord God called
unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art thou?" Gen. 3:9.
Since the fall, how has God made known His will? “God, who at sundry times
and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets." Heb. 1:1.
What was the object of speaking "by the prophets? “Surely the Lord God will
do nothing but He revealeth His secret unto His servants the prophets." Amos 3:7.
By what influence did the prophets reveal God's will? “For the prophecy came
not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the
Holy Ghost. " 2 Peter 1:21 (2 Sam. 23:2).
Then what may the gift of prophecy be called? A gift of the Holy Spirit, or a
spiritual gift.
What was said regarding the words of God's prophets?” If there be a prophet
among you, I the Lord will make myself known unto him in a vision, and will speak unto
him in a dream." Num. 12:6.
How were the Lord's words preserved to the people? "Daniel had a dream and
visions of his head upon his bed: then he wrote the dream, and told the sum of the matters."
Dan. 7:1 (Jer. 51:60, 61).
What had these writings to do with the people's understanding future events?
“I Daniel understood by books the number of the years, whereof the word of the Lord came
to Jeremiah the prophet, that He would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of
Jerusalem." Dan.9:2.
How did God's ministers use the words of the prophets in exhorting the people
to obedience? “Should ye not hear the words which the Lord hath cried by the former
prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity?" Zech. 7:7 (2 Chron. 20:20).
How were. people to know whether or not the words of prophets were from
the Lord? “When a prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not, nor
come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken
it presumptuously; thou shalt not be afraid of him." Deut. 18:22.
What was considered a still better test on this point? “If there arise among you a
prophet, or a dreamer of dreams, and giveth thee a sign or a wonder, and the sign or the
wonder come to pass, whereof he spake unto thee, saying Let us go after other gods, which
thou hast not known, and let us serve them; thou shalt not hearken unto the words of that
prophet, or that dreamer of dreams: for the Lord your God proveth you, to know whether ye
love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul." Deut. 13:1-3.
What was predicted concerning the spirit of prophecy in the last days? “And it
shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out My Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons
and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men
shall see visions." Joel 2:28.
When did this prediction commence to be fulfilled? “But this is that which was
spoken by the prophet Joel; And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour
out of My Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your
young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams." Acts 2:16, 17.
To whom was this promise to extend? “Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and
be baptized everyone of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye
shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. For the promise is unto you, and to your children,
and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call." Acts 2:38, 39.
What relation should the Christian church sustain toward these spiritual
gifts? “Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant." 1 Cor.
12:1.
What is the object of these gifts? “But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to
every man to profit withal." 1 Cor. 12:7.
What are some of these gifts? “For to one is given by the Spirit the word of
wisdom;... to another faith by the same Spirit; to another the gifts of healing by the same
Spirit; to another the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to another discerning of
Spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another the interpretation of tongues." 1 Cor.
12:8-10.
Which one of these does the apostle say is especially desirable? “Follow after
charity, and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that ye may prophesy." 1 Cor. 14:1.
Whom was this gift designed to benefit? “Prophesying serveth not for them that
believe not, but for them which believe." 1 Cor. 14:22.
What effect is the exercise of these gifts to have upon the church? “And He
gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and
teachers; for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the
body of Christ; till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of
God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ." Eph.
4:11-13.
Where did God place these gifts?” And God hath set some in the church, first
apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings,
helps, governments, diversities of tongues." 1 Cor. 12:28.
Who came down from Judea to Ceasarea while Paul was there? “And as we
tarried there many days, there came down from Judaea a certain prophet, named Agabus."
Acts 21:10.
What did he do as soon as he saw the apostle? “And when he was come unto us,
he took Paul's girdle, and bound his own hands and feet, and said, Thus saith the Holy
Ghost, So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver
him into the hands of the Gentiles." Acts 21:11.
At a later period, what did Paul say these trials had wrought? “But I would ye
should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather
unto the furtherance of the gospel." Phil. 1:12.
How long was it designed that these gifts should last? “For we know in part, and
we prophesy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall
be done away." 1 Cor.13:9, 10.
What admonition does Paul give respecting the gift of Prophecy? “Despise not
prophesyings." 1 Thess. 5:20.
What is the "testimony of Jesus? “The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of
prophecy." Rev. 19:10.
Why is it necessary for the church now to have confirmed in it the testimony
of Christ? “Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you: so that ye come behind
in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ." 1 Cor. 1:6, 7.
What will characterize the last, or "remnant," church?” And the dragon was
wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the
commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ." Rev. 12:17.