Chapter 120
The Christian Armor
===================

What power makes war upon the remnant church, prior to the second
advent? “And the dragon [Satan, Rev. 12:9] was wroth with the woman, and went to make
war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the
testimony of Jesus Christ." Rev. 12:17.
What reward is promised to the overcomer? "To him that overcometh will I give
to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the Paradise of God." Rev. 2:7, 17, 26 (Rev.
3:5, 21).
Through whom are we able to conquer? “Nay, in all these things we are more
than conquerors through Him that loved us." Rom. 8:37.
Who was the invisible leader of the army of Israel?
"Behold, there stood a man over against him with his sword drawn in his hand; and
Joshua went unto him, and said unto him, Art thou for us, or for our adversaries? And he
said, Nay; but as captain of the host of the Lord am I now come." Joshua 5:13, 14 (1 Cor.
10:1-4).
With what weapons is the Christian warfare conducted? “For the weapons of
our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds." 2
Cor. 10:4.
What are these weapons able to conquer? “Casting down imaginations, and
every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into
captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ." 2 Cor. 10:5.
What are we to put on? “Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to
stand against the wiles of the Devil." Eph. 6:11.
What is included in the "wiles of the Devil" that one has to meet? “For we
wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the
rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places." Eph.
6:12.
What are the first essentials of the needed armor? “Stand therefore, having your
loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness." Eph. 6:14.
What is the truth with which one's loins are to be girded? “Sanctify them... thy
word is truth." John 17:17.
What is meant by having the loins girded? “Wherefore gird up the loins of your
mind." 1 Peter 1:13.
What is the "righteousness" of which the breastplate is composed? “My
tongue shall speak of thy word; for all thy commandments are righteousness." Ps. 119:172.
With what are the feet to be shod? “And your feet shod with the preparation of
the gospel of peace." Eph. 6:15 (James 3:18).
What piece of armor is next mentioned as necessary? “Above all, taking the
shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked." Eph.
6:16 (1 John 5:4) (Heb. 11:6).
What is the last and crowning piece of armor to be put on? “And take the
helmet of salvation." Eph. 6:17.
What sword is to be used by the soldier of Christ? “The sword of the Spirit,
which is the word of God." Eph. 6:17.
Will there be those in the remnant church who will risk their lives in the
contest against the enemy? “And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by
the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death." Rev. 12:11.
Will this commandment keeping company be victorious under Christ, their
leader? “And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire; and them that had gotten the
victory over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark, and over the number of his
name, stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God." Rev. 15:2.