Chapter 180
The Conflict Ended
==================

In describing the conclusion of the six-day Creation of our world, what
statement is made about its termination?
"Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the
seventh day God ended his work which he had made." Genesis 2:1, 2.
NOTE. - God's work here referred to was "very good." Genesis 1:31. Had it not been for sin, this
first plan of God would not have been followed by the three steps we shall now study.
When dying on the cross, what were Jesus' last words?
"When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, He said, It is finished: and He
bowed his head, and gave up the ghost." John 19:30.
NOTE. - Christ came into the world to save sinners. Costly though the price was, He paid it. Bitter as
was the cup, He drank its last dregs. In that final moment He said, "it is finished."
When the seventh plague is poured out, what announcement will be made?
"And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and there came a great voice
out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done." Revelation 16:17.
NOTE. - This outpouring of God's wrath is upon the rejecters of Heaven's mercy. Human probation
has closed, and when the great voice cries, "It is done," Christ starts on His way to earth the second time.
And when the new heavens and the new earth have appeared, and the Holy
City, the New Jerusalem, has descended from God and becomes the center of the new
creation, what announcement will then be made?
"And He that sat upon the throne said, Behold I make all things new. And He said
unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful. And He said unto me, It is done. I am
Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end." Revelation 21:5, 6.
What did God promise will be no more in the new earth?
"And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more
death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former
things are passed away." Verse 4. "And there shall be no more curse." Revelation 22:3.
What will all the earth be like at that time?
"The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the
kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a little child shall lead
them. And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie down together: and
the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp,
and the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice' den. They shall not hurt nor
destroy in all my holy mountain: for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as
the waters cover the sea." Isaiah 11:6-9.
What will finally be the wonderful privilege of God's children?
"And they shall see His face." Revelation 22:4.
How perfect will be their knowledge of God?
"For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part;
but then shall I know even as also I am known." 1 Corinthians 13:12.
Whom will they be like?
"Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be
but we know that, when He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He
is." 1 John 3:2.
From what problems will the saints be forever delivered?
"And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more
death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former
things are passed away." Revelation 21:4.
Who will dwell with the Redeemed?
"He will dwell with them, and they shall be His people, and God himself shall be
with them, and be their God." Verse 3.
How long will they possess this glorious future kingdom?
"But the saints of the most High shall take the kingdom, and possess the kingdom
for ever, even for ever and ever." Daniel 7:18.
How long will they reign with Christ?
"And they shall reign for ever and ever." Revelation 22:5.