Chapter 46
A Great Prophetic Period
========================

At what time according to the prophecy of Daniel, was the sanctuary to be
cleansed? “And he said unto me, Unto two thousand and three hundred days; then shall
the sanctuary be cleansed." Dan. 8:14.
Where was Daniel when the vision of this chapter was given? “And I saw the
vision; and it came to pass, when I saw, that I was at Shushan in the palace, which is in the
province of Elam; and I saw in a vision, and I was by the river Ulai." Dan 8:2.
What first appeared to the prophet? “Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and,
behold, there stood before the river a ram which had two horns." Dan. 8:3.
What next appeared upon the scene? “And as I was considering, behold a he
goat came from the west... And he came to the ram that had two horns,... and smote the
ram, and brake his two horns." Dan. 8:5-7.
What happened after the prophet heard the time announced for the cleansing
of the sanctuary? “And it came to pass, when I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision, and
sought for the meaning, then, behold, there stood before me as the appearance of a man."
Dan. 8:15.
What command did Daniel hear given to this angel?” And I heard a man's voice
between the banks of Ulai, which called, and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand
the vision." Dan. 8:16.
What were the first words that the angel then uttered before the prophet?” I
was afraid, and fell upon my face: but he said unto, me, Understand, a son of man; for at
the time of the end shall be the vision." Dan, 8:17.
How did the angel then proceed to fulfill his mission to Daniel? “The ram which
thou sawest having two horns are the kings of Media and Persia. And the rough goat is the
king of Grecia." Dan.8:20, 21.
What part of the vision did the angel say was to be shut up, and why? “And the
vision of the evening and the morning which was told is true: wherefore shut thou up the
vision; for it shall be for many days." Dan. 8:26.
What did Daniel say about the vision? “And I Daniel fainted, and was sick
certain days; afterward I rose up, and did the king's business; and I was astonished at the
vision, but none understood it." Dan. 8:27.
Although Daniel said nothing of his astonishment at what he had seen, so that
the king's courtiers did not perceive it, what did he do? “In the first year of Darius,... I
Daniel understood by books the number of the years, whereof the word of the Lord came to
Jeremiah the prophet, that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of
Jerusalem." Dan. 9:1, 2.
In view of this, what did the prophet do?” And I set my face unto the Lord God,
to seek by prayer and supplications, with fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes." Dan. 9:3.
What, in Daniel's prayer, showed that he was still anxious about the sanctuary
question? “Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant, and his
supplications, and cause Thy face to shine upon Thy sanctuary that is desolate, for the
Lord's sake." Dan. 9:17.
How did the Lord regard his petition? "Yea, while I was speaking in prayer,
even the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly
swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation." Dan. 9:21.
What did Gabriel tell Daniel? “At the beginning of thy supplications the
commandment came forth, and I am come to show thee; for thou art greatly beloved:
therefore understand the matter, and consider the vision." Dan. 9:23.
What application did Gabriel proceed to make of the vision? “Seventy weeks
are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, and to
make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting
righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the Most Holy." Dan.
9:24.
NOTES. - Seventy weeks are equal to 490 days. These were to be "cut off" from the vision Daniel
was considering, that is, from the 2300 days. The days in this prophecy, uniformly with those of other
prophecies, represent years. If, then, the 490 years are "cut off" from the 2300 years, it follows that the 490
years begin at the same time as the 2300.
When did the angel say that the seventy weeks (490 years) were to commence?
“Know therefore and understand, that from the going forth of the commandment to restore
and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the Prince shall be seven weeks, and three- score
and two weeks; the street shall be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times." Dan.
9:25.
NOTE. - Sixty-nine of the seventy weeks were to reach "unto the Messiah the Prince." Messiah is
Christ, "the Anointed." Messiah is the Hebrew word, and Christ is the Greek word, meaning anointed. See
margin of John 1:41.
How was Jesus anointed? “God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost
and with power." Acts 10:38.
At what time did Jesus receive the special anointing of the Holy Spirit? “Jesus
also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened, and the Holy Ghost descended in
a bodily shape like a dove upon Him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art
My beloved Son." Luke 3:21, 22.
What did Jesus say shortly after this? “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me,
because He hath anointed Me to preach the gospel to the poor." Luke 4:18 (Mark 1:15).
NOTE. - It is evident that the sixty-nine weeks (483 years) were to reach to the baptism of Christ, as
that was the time of His anointing by the Holy Spirit. John the Baptist began his work in the fifteenth year of
the reign of Tiberius ( Luke 3:1-3). Tiberius began to reign conjointly with his father in the year 12 A.D., two
years before his father's death ("Prideaux's Connection," vol. 1, page 246). The fifteenth year of his reign
would therefore be 27 A.D., the time when Jesus was anointed, at His baptism.
When was a decree made to restore and build Jerusalem? “This Ezra went up
from Babylon... And there went up some of the children of Israel, and of the priests, and the
Levites, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinim, unto Jerusalem, in the seventh
year of Artaxerxes the king. And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the
seventh year of the king." Ezra 7:6-8.
At the close of 483 years, in 27 A.D., one week, or seven years of the 490 yet
remained. What was to be done in the midst of that week? “And He shall confirm the
covenant with many for one week: and in the midst of the week He shall cause the sacrifice
and the oblation to cease." Dan. 9:27.
NOTE. - As the sixty-nine weeks ended in the fall of 27 A.D., the middle of the seventieth week, or
the three and a half years, would end in the spring of 31 A.D., when Christ was crucified, and by His death
caused to cease, or brought to an end, the sacrifices and oblations of the earthly sanctuary. Three and a half
years more (the last part of the seventieth week) would end in the autumn of 34 A.D. This brings us to the end
of the 490 years which were "cut off" from the 2300. There still remain 1810 years, which, if added to 34
A.D., which takes us to 1844 A.D.
And what did the angel say would then take place?” And he said unto me, Unto
two thousand and three hundred days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed." Dan. 8:14.
NOTE. - In other words, the great closing work of Christ for the world, the atonement, or the
investigative judgment, will at that time commence. The typical day of atonement for Israel occupied but one
day in a year. This may occupy but a correspondingly short time. Already that work has been going on for
many years, and must soon close. Who is ready to meet its decisions?
THE 2300 DAY
PROPHECY
DANIEL'S AMAZING PROPHECIES
The Master Prophecy of the Bible is given in Daniel 8. This chapter closely
connects with Daniel 7 and 9 and should be studied together with them.
DANIEL 7 (written 553-552 B.C.) reveals world history from Daniel's time down
to the Second Advent of Christ. In vision, Daniel sees 4 world empires symbolized as
beasts, followed by a little horn power (Dan 7:1-8, 15-21, 23-25). The Investigative
Judgment then convenes in heaven (Dan 7:9-10, 13, 22, 26) and after that history ends with
the Second Advent of Christ (Dan 7:14, 27-28).
The animals in Daniel 7 parallel the parts of the metal image of Daniel 2. The lion
in