Chapter 136
Diligence
===========

What good things are spoken of the faithful and energetic? “He that tilleth his
land shall have plenty of bread." Prov. 28:19. "The hand of the diligent maketh rich. "Prov.
10:4. "The soul of the diligent shall be made fat." Prov. 13:4.
What is said of the man of opposite characteristics? “He becometh poor that
dealeth with a slack hand." Prov. 10:4. "The soul of the sluggard desireth and hath
nothing." Prov. 13:4.
What social distinction is shown between the diligent man and the slothful
one? “The hand of the diligent shall bear rule, but the slothful shall be under tribute." Prov.
12:24.
What honor awaits the diligent man of business? “See thou a man diligent in his
business? He shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men." Prov. 22:29.
Give an example of the reward of industry. “And the man Jeroboam was a
mighty man of valor; and Solomon seeing the young man that he was industrious, he made
him ruler over all the charge of the house of Joseph." 1 Kings 11:28.
May we estimate a man's thrift by the condition of his dwelling? “By much
slothfulness the building decayeth; and through idleness of the hands the house droppeth
through." Eccl. 10:18,
Give a picture of a slack man's farm, as drawn by an eyewitness. “I went by the
field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding; and lo, it was all
grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof
was broken down." Prov. 24:30, 31.
What lesson did the wise man learn as he noticed these things? “Then I saw and
considered it well: I looked upon it, and received instruction." Prov. 24:32.
Is our work for "the life that now is," closely united with that for the one to
come? “Not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord." Rom. 12:11,
What sentence is pronounced against the man who is unfaithful in God's
work? “Cursed be he that doeth the work of the Lord deceitfully." Jer. 48:10.
In view of the reward to be given at Christ's appearing, what exhortation is
given? “Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that ye may be
found of Him in peace, without spot and blameless." 2 Peter 3:14.
What blessed assurance is given such as follow this advice? “Wherefore the
rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure: for if ye do these
things ye shall never fall; for so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into
the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ." 2 Peter 1:10, 11.