Chapter 139
Importance of Prayer
====================

What is the promise to those who ask and seek for the things they need?
“Everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it
shall be opened." Matt. 7:8.
How does the Saviour illustrate the willingness of Heaven to grant favors to
those who ask? “If ye, then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children,
how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask
Him?" Matt. 7:11.
In whose name should we present our prayers to God? "And whatsoever ye
shall ask in My name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If ye shall
ask anything in My name, I will do it." John 14:13, 14.
Why is it necessary to ask God for all these things? “Every good gift and every
perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no
variableness, neither shadow of turning." James 1:17.
Through what means are these gifts received? “Everyone that asketh receiveth."
Matt. 7:8. "If ye, then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how
much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask Him."
Matt. 7:11. "Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in My name, He will give it you." John
16:23. "Ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full." John 16:24.
How should we pray to God. “I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the
understanding also." 1 Cor. 14:15.
With what should the prayers of a suppliant be mingled? “Be careful for
nothing; but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests
be made known unto God." Phil. 4:6.
Should certain forms be repeated in public for the purpose of being heard by
men? “But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do; for they think that
they shall be heard for their much speaking." Matt. 6:7.
What must necessarily prompt our petitions, in order to please God? “But
without faith it is impossible to please Him; for he that cometh to God must believe that He
is and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him." Heb. 11:6.
How strong must this faith be? “Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye
desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them." Mark 11:24.
When praying for forgiveness, how should we feel toward those who have in
any way injured us? “And when ye stand praying, forgive if ye have aught against any:
that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses." Mark 11:25.
What will result if this injunction is not carried out? “But if ye do not forgive,
neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses." Mark 11:26.
What should we do when in affliction? “Is any among you afflicted? let him
pray." James 5:13.
Should we pray in secret? “But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and
when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which
seeth in secret shall reward thee openly." Matt. 6:6.
To what places did our Saviour retire for secret devotion? “And when He had
sent the multitudes away, He went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening
was come, He was there alone." Matt. 14:23.
But if it should happen that we were thrown into the presence of those who
ridicule prayer, or were forbidden to pray, should we give up our customary
devotion? “Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house;
and his windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees
three times a day, and prayed and gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime." Dan.
6:10.
What is said of Cornelius and his family? “A devout man, and one that feared
God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people, and prayed to God alway."
Acts 10:2.
Did the apostolic believers have gatherings for prayer? “And when he had
considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary the mother of John, whose surname was
Mark; where many were gathered together praying." Acts 12:12.
How often does the apostle exhort the church to pray? “Praying always with all
prayer and supplication in the Spirit." Eph. 6:18.
How does he express himself on this point elsewhere? “Pray without ceasing." 1
Thess. 5:17.
In the parable of the importunate widow, what reason did the judge give for
finally heeding her petition? “Though I fear not God, nor regard man; yet because this
widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me." Luke
18:4, 5.
How does the Saviour apply the parable? “And the lord said, Hear what the
unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge His own elect, which cry day and night unto
Him, though He bear long with them?" Luke 18:6, 7.
What does the Saviour conclude in answer to His own question on this point?
“I tell you that He will avenge them speedily." Luke 18:8.
What question does the Saviour immediately ask? “Nevertheless, when the Son
of man cometh, shalt He find faith on the earth?" Luke 18:8.
For what purpose was the parable employed? “And He spake a parable unto
them to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint." Luke 18:1.
What injunction did the Saviour leave on this point for the special benefit of
those who would live just before His second coming? “Watch ye therefore, and pray
always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass,
and to stand before the Son of man." Luke 21:36.