Chapter 177
Subjects of the Kingdom
=======================

Does God want Christians to overcome evil in their lives?
"Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good." Rom. 12:21.
NOTE.−In 1 John 5:4 that which we are to overcome is called ‘the world’ and in 1 John 2:15-17 the
things of which ‘the world’ consists are described as “the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes and the
pride of life.”
What only can overcome the world?
"For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world." 1 John 5:4.
What special quality is needed in order to succeed in our efforts to overcome?
"And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith." Verse 4.
What promises are made by Christ to the overcomer?
1. "To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst
of the paradise of God." Revelation 2:7.
2. "He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death." Verse 11.
3. "To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give
him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he
that receiveth it." Verse 17.
4. "He that overcometh, and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give
power over the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron; as the vessels of a potter
shall they be broken to shivers: even as I received of My Father. And I will give him the
morning star." Verses 26-28.
5. "He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not
blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before My Father, and
before His angels." Rev. 3:5.
6. "Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of My God, and he shall
go no more out: and I will write upon him the name of My God, and the name of the city of
My God, which is new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from My God: and I
will write upon him My new name." Verse 12.
7. "To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also
overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne." Verse 21.
In what one promise are all of these promises to the overcomers summarized?
"He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be
My son." Rev. 21:7.
NOTE.-The exceeding great and precious promises to the overcomer embrace everything-eternal
life, health, happiness, and an everlasting home. What more could be asked?
What new name was given to Jacob?
"And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince
hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed." Gen. 32:28.
What group of people later were called by that name?
"Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt:
...Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin, Dan, and Naphtali,
Gad, and Asher ...Joseph." Ex. 1:1-5. Abraham, were known as the twelve tribes of Israel.
What special blessings were conferred upon the Israelites?
"Who are Israelites; to whom pertaineth the adoption, and the glory, and the
covenants, and the giving of the law, and the service of God, and the promises; whose are
the fathers, and of whom as concerning the flesh Christ came, who is over all." Rom. 9:4, 5.
Who constitutes the true Israel of God, the seed of Abraham?
"They are not all Israel, which are of Israel: neither, because they are the seed of
Abraham, are they all children: but, In Isaac shall thy seed be called. That is, They which
are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God: but the children of the
promise are counted for the seed." Verses 6-8.
Speaking to the Pharisees and Sadducees, what did John the Baptist have to
say about this?
"And think not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say
unto you, that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham." Matt. 3:9.
What is it that decides whether or not a person is a child of Abraham?
"Know ye therefore that they which are of faith the same are the children of
Abraham." Gal. 3:7.
To whom must one belong in order to be Abraham's seed?
"And if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the
promise." Verse 29.
In what passage of Scripture are the believers in Christ called "Israel"?
"And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy, and
upon the Israel of God." Galatians 6:16.
To whom is the gospel the power of God unto salvation?
"For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto
salvation to everyone that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek." Rom. 1:16.
To what group did Jesus first send the disciples?
"These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying, Go not into the way
of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans enter ye not: but go rather to the lost
sheep of the house of Israel." Matt. 10:5, 6.
While eating dinner with Zachaeus, what did Christ tell him?
"This day is salvation come to this house, forsomuch as he also is a son of
Abraham." Luke 19:9.
When the Jews rejected Paul's preaching of Christ, what did Paul and
Barnabas reply?
"Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold, and said, It was necessary that the word of
God should first have been spoken to you: but seeing ye put it from you, and judge
yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo, we turn to the Gentiles." Acts 13:46.
NOTE. -From all this it is plain that had not the Jews as a nation rejected Christ, they would still
have maintained the preeminence as the children of God, and as God's light bearers to the world. But because
of this rejection, they were rejected as God's peculiar people, and others took their place, and now bear the
name of Israel in common with those who were first called by that name.
What illustration is given to describe the coming of the Gentiles (non-Jews)
into the true Israel of God?
"And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou being a wild olive tree, wert
grafted in among them, and with them partakest of the root and fatness of the olive tree;
boast not against the branches." Rom. 11:17, 18.
Lest the Gentile grafts should boast, saying that the Jews were broken off to
let them come in, what warning is given to them?
"Well; because of unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not
high minded but fear: for if God spared not the natural branches, take heed lest he also
spare not thee." Verse 20-21.
Is it possible for members of the Jewish race to return to the vine?
"And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be grafted in: for God is able
to graft them in again." Verse 23.
Before the Gentiles became Israelites, what was their condition?
"Wherefore remember, that ye being in time past Gentiles ...at that time ye were
without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the
covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world." Eph. 2:11, 12.
How are God's remnant, last-day people described?
"Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the commandments of
God, and the faith of Jesus." Revelation 14:12.
Whose names are written in the foundations of the Holy City?
"And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the
twelve apostles of the Lamb." Revelation 21:14.
Whose names are written on the twelve gates of that city?
"And [the wall] had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written
thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel." Verse 12.
Who will walk in the light of the city?
"And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it: and the kings
of the earth do bring their glory and honour into it." Verse 24.