Chapter 130
Unity of Believers
==================

What relation do the Father and the Son sustain to each other? “I and My
Father are one." John 10:30.
In what did Christ ask the Father in behalf of His disciples? “Holy Father, keep
through thine own name those whom thou hast given Me, that they may be one, as We are."
John 17:11.
Could the church be thus, what influence would it have on unbelievers? “That
they all may be one; as Thou, Father, art in Me, and I in Thee, that they also may be one in
us: that the world may believe that Thou has sent Me." John 17:21.
What did the apostle Paul teach on this point? “Now I beseech you, brethren, by
the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no
divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the
same judgment." 1 Cor. 1:10.
What was a prominent cause of division in the early church? “For I know this,
that after My departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock.
Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples
after them." Acts 20:29, 30.
What did this division cause among the believers even in Paul's day? “For the
mystery of iniquity doth already work: only he who now letteth [hindereth] will let, until he
be taken out of the way." 2 Thess. 2:7.
When paganism, that which hindered the full development of this "mystery,"
was taken out of the way, what followed? “And then shall that Wicked be revealed,
whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of His mouth, and shall destroy with the
brightness of His coming." 2 Thess. 2:8.
By what name is this power elsewhere called? “Let no man deceive you by any
means: for that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first, and that man of
sin be revealed, the son of perdition: who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is
called God, or that is worshiped; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing
himself that he is God." 2 Thess. 2:3, 4.
To what does the apostle liken the church? “Now ye are the body of Christ, and
members in particular." 1 Cor. 12:27.
And being members of Christ's body, of what else do we become members?
“So we, being many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another." Rom.
12:5.
As members of one another, what is the duty of each? “That there should be no
schism in the body: but that the members should have the same care one for another." 1
Cor. 12:25.
If the church is one, as the body of Christ, what should be its united aim? “I
therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation
wherewith ye are called, with all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering, forbearing
one another in love; endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace." Eph.
4:1-3.
When the Lord is about to come, how will the true ministers of the gospel
stand on this point? "Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall
they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." Isa. 52:8.
What solemn message, just before the Lord's coming, will bring this unity?
“And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast
and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand, the same shall drink of
the wine of the wrath of God... Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the
commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus." Rev. 14:9-12.
When the lord comes, what will be the united cry of these faithful ones? “And
it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have waited for Him, and He will save us:
this is the lord; we have waited for Him, we will be glad and rejoice in His salvation." Isa.
25:9.