Chapter 109
Living Souls
============

When man had been created from the dust, what did he become? “And the
Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of
life; and man became a living soul." Gen. 2:7.
To what other order of beings is the term soul applied? “And levy a tribute unto
the Lord of the men of war which went out to battle: one soul of five hundred, both of the
persons, and of the beeves, and of the asses, and of the sheep." Num. 31:28.
Is the term "living souls" applied to anything besides man and beast? “And the
second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and it became as the blood of a dead man:
and every living soul died in the sea." Rev. 16:3.
Can a soul suffer thirst? “As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a
far country." Prov. 25:25.
May it also suffer hunger? “Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an idle
soul shall suffer hunger." Prov. 19:15.
Is it capable of eating? “But the soul that eateth of the flesh of the sacrifice of
peace offerings, that pertain unto the Lord, having his uncleanness upon him, even that soul
shall be cut off from his people." Lev. 7:20.
Can it be injured? “And they smote all the souls that were therein with the edge of
the sword." Joshua 11:11.
Can the soul die? “Behold, all souls are Mine, as the soul of the father, so also the
soul of the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, it shall die." Eze. 18:4.
What is said of the soul of Christ? “Therefore will I divide Him a portion with the
great, and He shall divide the spoil with the strong; because He hath poured out His soul
unto death." Isa. 53:12.
What becomes of the soul at death? “What man is he that liveth, and shall not see
death? Shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave?" Ps. 89:48.
Where did Christ's soul go at His death? “He seeing this before spake of the
resurrection of Christ, that His soul was not left in hell [hades], neither His flesh did see
corruption." Acts 2:31.
NOTE. - His soul went into the grave, but was not left there, He being raised on the third day.