Chapter 36
Sufferings of Christ
====================

Why did Christ come into the world? “This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all
acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief." 1
Tim. 1:15.
What prompted God to give His Son to die for man? “For God so loved the
world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not
perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16 (1 John 4:9, 10) (Rom.5:8).
What did the prophet say Christ would be called to endure? “He was
oppressed, and He was afflicted, yet He opened not his mouth: He is brought as a lamb to
the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so He openeth not His mouth. He
was taken from prison and from judgment: and who shall declare His generation? for He
was cut off out of the land of the living: for the transgression of my people was He
stricken." Isa. 53:7, 8.
Must not Christ have known beforehand of these things? “Then He took unto
Him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are
written by the prophets concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished. For He shall be
delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on;
and they shall scourge Him, and put Him to death." Luke 18:31-33.
How did the Saviour feel when the sins of the world were upon Him? “And He
took with Him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very
heavy. Then saith He unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye
here, and watch with Me." Matt. 26:37, 38.
In His distress, for what did He pray? “And He went a little farther, and fell on
His face, and prayed, saying, O My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from Me:
nevertheless not as I will, but as Thou wilt." Matt. 26:39.
How great was the agony of His soul? “And being in an agony He prayed more
earnestly: and His sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground."
Luke 22:44.
After this remarkable prayer, what happened to cause Him more grief? “And
while He yet spake, behold a mu1titude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve,
went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss Him. But Jesus said unto him, Judas,
betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss?" Luke 22:47, 48.
To what place was He taken? “Then took they Him, and led Him, and brought
Him into the high priest's house. And Peter followed afar off." Luke 22:54.
While at the high priest's house, what act of Peter's caused the Saviour
additional suffering? “Another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also
was with Him; for He is a Galilean. And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And
immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew. And the Lord turned; and looked upon
Peter." Luke 22:59-61.
What reproachful things were done to Christ while He was at the high priest's
house? “And the men that held Jesus mocked Him, and smote Him. And when they had
blindfolded Him, they struck Him on the face, and asked Him, saying, Prophesy, who is it
that smote thee?" Luke 22:63, 64.
Where was Christ next taken? “And as soon as it was day, the elders of the
people and the chief priests and the scribes came together, and led Him into their council."
Luke 22:66.
What was their object in taking Him there, since it was not in their power
judicially to sentence Him?” Then said they all, Art Thou then the Son of God? And He
said unto them, Ye say that I am. And they said, What. need we any further witness? for we
ourselves have heard of His own mouth." Luke 22:70, 71.
Having procured the pretext they sought, what did they next do? “And the
whole multitude of them arose, and led Him unto Pilate." Luke 23:1.
When Pilate desired to let Christ go, how did they remonstrate? “And they
were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry,
beginning from Galilee to this place." Luke 23:5.
When Pilate heard that Christ had been in Galilee, what did he do?” And as
soon as he knew that He belonged unto Herod's jurisdiction, he sent Him to Herod, who
himself also was at Jerusalem at that time." Luke 23:7.
Did the chief priests and scribes follow Christ before Herod? "And the chief
priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused Him." Luke 23:10.
What indignity did Herod put upon the Saviour? "And Herod with his men of
war set Him at nought, and mocked Him, and arrayed Him in a gorgeous robe, and sent
Him again to Pilate." Luke 23:11.
When Christ was again brought before Pilate, what did Pilate propose to do?
“I have found no cause of death in Him: I will therefore chastise Him, and let Him go."
Luke 23:22.
At this proposition, how did Christ's accusers act? “And they were instant
[earnest] with loud voices, requiring that He might be crucified. And the voices of them
and of the chief priests prevailed." Luke 23:23.
Besides yielding to the clamors of the Jews, what cruelty did Pilate inflict upon
Christ? “Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged Him." John 19:1.
What shameful treatment did He receive from the soldiers? “And when they
had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon His head, and a reed in His right hand: and
they bowed the knee before Him, and mocked Him, saying Hail, King of the Jews! And
they spit upon Him, and took the reed, and smote Him on the head." Matt. 27:29, 30.
After bringing Him to the place of crucifixion, what did they offer Him to
stupefy Him? "They gave Him vinegar to drink mingled with gall; and when He had tasted
thereof, He would not drink." Matt. 23:34.
What prayer did He utter as they were nailing Him to the cross? “Then said
Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." Luke 23:34.
With what words did they taunt Him while on the cross? “Likewise also the
chief priests mocking Him, with the scribes and elders, said, He saved others; Himself He
can not save. If He be the King of the Israel, let Him now come down from the cross, and we
will believe Him." Matt. 27:41, 42.
As He cried out in agony on the cross, what was again offered Him?” And
straightway one of them ran, and took a sponge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a
reed, and gave Him to drink." Matt. 27:48.
What closed this terrible scene? “When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar,
He said, It is finished: and He bowed His head, and gave up the ghost." John 19:30.
What wonderful demonstration attested nature's sympathy with the dying
Son of God? “And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a dark- ness over all the earth
until the ninth hour. And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the
midst." Luke 23:44, 45.
Was it necessary for Christ thus to suffer? “For it became Him, for whom are all
things, and by whom are all things, in brining many sons unto glory, to make the Captain of
their salvation perfect through sufferings." Heb. 2:10.
What follows from the fact that God gave us His only Son? “He that spared not
His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not with Him also freely give us
all things?" Rom. 8:32.
Section 5
The Holy Spirit