Chapter 153
Debts
===========

Does the Lord care whether or not we are prompt in paying the poor?
"Thou shalt not oppress a hired servant that is poor and needy, whether he be of thy
brethren, or of thy strangers that are in thy land within thy gates: at his day thou shalt give
him his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it; for he is poor, and setteth his heart upon
it: lest he cry against thee unto the Lord, and it be sin unto thee." Deut. 24:14, 15.
What is said of the hire of the laborers which is kept back by the rich men of
the last days?
"Behold, the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you
kept back by fraud, crieth; and the cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears
of the Lord of Sabaoth." James 5:4.
With whom are they classed who defraud the laborer of his hire?
"And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the
sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against false swearers, and against those that
oppress the hireling in his wages." Mal. 3:5.
Will any of these enter the new Jerusalem?
"For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and
idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie." Rev. 22:15.
How does the Bible reprove those who stint their laborers?
"For the Scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn.
And, The laborer is worthy of his reward." 1 Tim. 5:18. "Thou shalt not defraud thy
neighbor, neither rob him: the wages of him that is hired shall not abide with thee all night
until the morning." Lev. 19:13.
Are we responsible for the loss by theft of goods that were entrusted to our
care?
"If the thief be not found, then the master of the house shall be brought unto the
judges, to see whether he have put his hand unto his neighbor's goods." "And if it be stolen
from him, he shall make restitution unto the owner thereof. If it be torn in pieces, then let
him bring it for witness, and he shall not make good that which was torn." Ex. 22:8, 12, 13.
Do we become debtors through our own negligence?
"If fire break out, and catch in thorns, so that the stacks of corn, or the standing
corn, or the field be consumed therewith; he that kindled the fire shall surely make
restitution." Ex. 22:6.
If a man wantonly or with malice aforethought, commits injury or entails loss,
what redress is required of him?
"If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shall put in his beast, and
shall feed in another man's field; of the best of his own field, and of the best of his own vine-
yard, shall he make restitution." Ex. 22:5.
Does God's code hold us responsible for what we borrow?
"And if a man borrow aught of his neighbor, and it be hurt, or die, the owner thereof
being not with it, he shall surely make it good. But if the owner thereof be with it, he shall
not make it good: if it be a hired thing, it came for his hire." Ex. 22:14, 15.
What is said concerning those who lend upon usury?
"Thou shalt not lend upon usury [exorbitant interest] to thy brother, usury of
money, usury of victuals, usury of anything that is lent upon usury." Deut. 23:19.
Do we owe one another even deeds of kindness?
"If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it
back to him again. If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, and
wouldest forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with him." Ex. 23:4, 5.
How does the apostle Paul cover the whole subject?
"Render therefore to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due; custom to whom
custom; fear to whom fear; honor to whom honor. Owe no many anything, but to love one
another." Rom. 13:7, 8.