Chapter 14
SALVATION
==========

For what purpose did Christ come into the world?
"This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into
the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief."-1 Tim. 1:15.
Can we obtain salvation through any other source?
"Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven
given among men, whereby we must be saved."-Acts 4:12.
From what does Christ save His people?
"Thou shalt call His name Jesus; for He shall save His people from their sins
"-Matt. 1:21.
In the case of the woman who washed the Saviour's feet in the house of Simon
the Pharisee, what was said to her because of her act?
"And He said to the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace."-Luke 7:50.
NOTE.-It cannot be supposed that this woman had nothing more to do to secure eternal salvation.
The word here used to express the forgiveness of sins she then received, simply means to preserve safe and
unharmed, to make whole, to cure, heal, etc., as in Matt. 8:25; 9: 21, 22. At that time she had been healed of
her sinful condition, and in that sense only was saved. The next hour, if she again gave way to temptation,
would place her on the list of sinners who would need to seek the Saviour for the forgiveness of sin. She was
saved from her past sins, provided she continued faithful to the end.
Who only will finally be saved?
"But he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved."-Matt. 24:13.
If one has had the assurance of sins forgiven, but has afterward turned from
his righteousness, what will be the result?
"But when the righteous turneth away from his righteousness, and committeth
iniquity, and doeth according to all the abominations that the wicked man doeth, shall he
live? All his righteousness that he hath done shall not be mentioned.* in his trespass that he
hath trespassed, and in his sin that he hath sinned, in them shall he die."-Eze. 18:24.
In the parable, when one who owed his lord ten thousand talents was unable
to pay, at his own request what did his master do for him?
"Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and
forgave him the debt.' Matt. 18:27.
After receiving forgiveness for his enormous debt, what did the servant do to
another who owed him but a hundred pence, and asked for mercy?
"And his fellow-servant fell down at his feet, and be-sought him, saying, Have
patience with me, and I will pay thee all. And he would not: but went and cast him into
prison, till he should pay the debt."-Matt. 18:29, 30.
What was then done with this unmerciful servant?
"Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, 0 thou wicked servant, I
forgave thee all that debt, because thou desiredst me. Shouldest not thou also have had
compassion on thy fellow-servant, even as I had pity on thee? And his lord was wroth, and
delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him."-Matt.
18:32-34.
What application of the parable did the Saviour make?
"So likewise shall My heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts
forgive not every one his brother their trespasses."-Matt. 18:35.
NOTE.-It will be seen that though the servant in the parable had been forgiven the great debt he had
incurred, and was conditionally saved from its consequences, yet because he did not do right toward others,
that debt was again rolled on him, and he suffered or was held in bondage for it, just the same as though it had
not been forgiven. But what gives this parable force, is the application our Saviour makes of it, as referred to
in the last text quoted. From that it is positive that one's eternal salvation is not secured until he has endured to
the end.
What is the end, object, or design of faith?
"Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls ' -l Peter 1:9.
Does one receive this salvation when he first believes?
"And that, knowing the time, now it is high time to awake out of sleep; for now is
our salvation nearer than when we believed." Rom. 13:11.
NOTE.-That is, they had not yet received salvation, though having believed, but were coming
nearer to it.
How is one kept, or preserved, until that salvation is given? and when is it to
be revealed?
"Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be
revealed in the last time. "-1 Peter 1:5.
Who will receive that salvation?
"So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for
Him shall He appear the second time without sin unto salvation."-Heb. 9:28.
In what condition are all men naturally?
"But the Scripture hath concluded all under sin." Gal. 3:22. "For all have sinned,
and come short of the glory of God." Rom.3:23.
What is the wages of sin?
"The wages of sin is death." Rom. 6:23.
What is the gift of God?
"The gift of God is eternal life." Rom. 6:23.
In whom is now this gift?
"This is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in His Son."
1 John 5:11.
How many may have this life?
"And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And
let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely." Rev.
22: 17. "He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life." 1
John 5:12.
How must one have Christ?
"Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be
reprobates?" 2 Cor. 13:5.
How do we really have Christ in us unto eternal life?
"He that believeth on Me hath everlasting life." John 6:47.
What follows the reception of Christ?
"I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me; and the life which I now live in the flesh I
live by the faith of the Son of God." Gal.2:20.
How are all regarded before they are quickened with Christ?
"God, who is rich in mercy, for His great love wherewith He loved us, even when
we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ." Eph. 2:4-5.
What is this spiritual transition from death to life called?
"Being born again, not of corruptible seed; but of incorruptible, by the word of
God, which liveth and abideth forever." 1 Peter 1:23.
When our first parents transgressed, what was done to prevent them from
living forever in sin?
"And now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and
live forever." "So He drove out the man; and He placed at the east of the garden of Eden
cherubim, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life."
Gen. 3:22, 24.
By whom did the Lord say that Satan, the originator of sin, should be
destroyed?
"I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed;
it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel." Gen. 3:15.
For what purpose did Christ die?
"Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, He also Himself
likewise took part of the same; that through death He might destroy him that had the power
of death, that is, the Devil." Heb. 2:14.
How early was it determined that Christ should die?
"And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written
in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world." Rev. 13:8.
Through whom was Abraham to receive the promise of God?
"The Lord appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will give this land." Gen.
12:7.
How far was the promise to Abraham to extend?
"And in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed." Acts 3:25.
To whom does the "seed" of the Old Testament refer?
"Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not, And to seeds,
as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is Christ." Gal. 3:16.
How did the Lord regard Abraham's faith?
"Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness." Rom. 4:3.
Since man had sinned, if righteousness could come by the law, then what must
we conclude?
"If righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain." Gal. 2:21.
Why have all been reckoned under sin?
"But the Scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise by faith of Christ
Jesus might be given to them that believe." Gal. 3:22.
What does Christ become to the true believer?
"Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life; no man cometh unto the
Father, but by Me." John 14:6.
How then do all become children of God?
"For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus." Gal. 3:26.
If children of God, what is our prospect?
"If children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ." Rom. 8:17.
Section 3
The Pathway to Christ