Chapter 17
Confession
==========

Is there a promise for those who confess their sins?
"If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse
us from all unrighteousness." 1 John 1:9.
To whom besides the Lord should one confess his sins?
"Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be
healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much." James 5:16.
NOTE. All sins should be confessed to God, because the very smallest is a grievance to Him; but
only those sins should be confessed to a fellow-man that have directly injured him. A sin that is against God
only, should be confessed only to Him, and man has no claim to a confession in such cases.
If one tries to cover up a sin, and will not properly confess it, what effect will
such a course have on the delinquent?
"He that covereth his sins shall not prosper; but whoso confesseth and forsaketh
them shall have mercy." Prov. 28:13.
NOTE.-He may outwardly appear to prosper, but spiritually he will not.
Is it possible to hide a sin from God?
"Be sure your sin will find you out." Num. 32:23. "Thou hast set our iniquities
before thee, our secret sins in the light of Thy countenance." Ps. 90:8.
How did David feel before he confessed his sins?
"When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long, For
day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: my moisture is turned into the drought of
summer." Ps. 32:3, 4.
What came to him after confession?
"I acknowledged my sin unto Thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will
confess my transgressions unto the Lord; and Thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin." Ps.
32:5.
Who is the advocate of the sinner?
"If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous." 1
John 2:1.
NOTE.-It follows that if one is an advocate for another, the advocate must know all the case of the
one for whom he is to plead. If any omission is made in stating the case in all its details, how can the advocate
plead for such?
How fully did Israel confess to Samuel when they wished him to intercede
before God in their behalf?
"And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto the Lord thy God,
that we die not; for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king." 1 Sam.
12:19.
NOTE.-Probably Samuel knew before that they had committed that particular wrong; but he wanted
them to feel it before he could really intercede in their behalf. Even so the Lord wishes all now to specify their
wrongs, that He may know they have a genuine sorrow for each one committed.
What are we to expect when we confess our sins?
"Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving- kindness: according unto
the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions." Ps. 51:1.
Will there be a time when every one will confess to God?
"For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to Me, and every
tongue shall confess to God. So then everyone of us shall give account of himself to God."
Rom. 14:11, 12.
NOTE.-The confessions here spoken of are those which will be made in the judgment. If any one
has refused to acknowledge his sins before, affirming that he could not see them, he will then see them just as
the record has them marked. He will confess his sins when it is too late to obtain forgiveness for them. It is far
better to acknowledge our faults now, and with the help of God put them away, while there is hope of
salvation.