Chapter 167
Religion in the Home
====================

How well acquainted is God with the life of each person on earth?
"Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought
afar off. Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my
ways. For there is not a word in my tongue, but, 10, a Lord, thou knowest it altogether."
Psalm 139:2-4.
What is the beginning of genuine wisdom?
"The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all
they that do His commandments." Psalm 111:10.
How are parents instructed to bring up their children?
"And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring them up in the
nurture and admonition of the Lord." Ephesians 6:4.
NOTE.-"Religion is love, and a religious home is one in which love reigns. There must be love in
action, love that flows out in all the home intercourse, showing itself in a thousand little expressions of
thoughtfulness, kindness, unselfishness and gentle courtesy."-J. R. Miller, Week-Day Religion (1880), p. 81.
How important is it that parents teach the Word of God to their children?
"And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: and thou
shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in
thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou
risest up." Deuteronomy 6:6, 7.
What is the value of careful early instruction?
"Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart
from it." Proverbs 22:6.
NOTE.-No man ever said that he began the service of God too young. No parent ever regretted
bringing up his children to love, fear, honor, and obey God.
How early was the Bible taught to Timothy?
"And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make
thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus." 2 Timothy 3:15.
NOTE.-Timothy's father was a Greek, and his mother a Jewess. From a child he had been taught the
Scriptures. The faith of his mother and his grandmother in the Word of God had early been implanted in him
through their faithful instruction. (2 Timothy 1:5) The piety which he saw in his homelife had a molding
influence upon his own life. This, with his knowledge of the Scriptures, qualified him to bear responsibilities
and to render faithful service later in the cause of Christ. His home instructors had co-operated with God in
preparing him for a life of usefulness. Thus it should be in every home.
Why did God confide in Abraham and commit important trusts to him?
"For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him,
and they shall keep the way of the Lord, to do justice and judgment." Genesis 18:19.
Wherever Abraham journeyed, what was his constant practice?
"And there he builded an altar unto the Lord, and called upon the name of the
Lord." Genesis 12:8. (See Genesis 13:4; 21:33.)
NOTE.-"The manner in which the family worship is conducted is very important. It should be made
so pleasant as to be looked forward to with gladness even by the youngest children. Too often it is made
tedious, monotonous or burdensome ..To make it dull and irksome is treason to true religion ..A few minutes
given every day to preparation for family worship will serve to make it, as it should be, the most pleasant and
attractive incident of the day."-J. R. Miller, Week-Day Religion, pp. 79-81.
Should we thank God for our food, and health and all that we have?
"In everything give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you." 1
Thessalonians 5:18.
NOTE.-As a rule, children will reflect the life and principles manifested in their parents. The reason
so many children are irreverent, irreligious, and disobedient today is that their parents are so. Like parent, like
child. If parents would see a different state of things, they must themselves reform. They must bring God into
their homes and make His Word their counselor and guide. They must teach the voice of God addressed to
them, and that it is to be implicitly obeyed. "In too many households, prayer is neglected .. If ever there was a
time when every house should be a house of prayer, it is now. Fathers and mothers should often lift up their
hearts to God in humble supplication for themselves and their children. Let the father, as priest of the
household, lay upon the altar of God the morning and evening sacrifice, while the wife and children unite in
prayer and praise. In such a household Jesus will love to tarry."-E. G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 144.