Chapter 25
Results of Disobedience
=======================

What has man's redemption from sin cost?
"For God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever
believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16. (See also Heb.
5:7-9.)
How great was this love?
"For scarcely for a righteous man will one die; yet peradventure for a good man
some would even dare to die. But God commendeth His love toward us, in that, while we
were yet sinners, Christ died for us." Rom. 5:7, 8 (Jer. 31:3).
In return, what does God require of us?
"And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and
with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind." Luke 10:27. (Deut. 6:5).
What is the love of God?
"For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments." 1 John 5:3.
Does the Lord compel obedience?
"And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And
let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely." Rev.
22:17 (Joshua 24:15).
Why does He ask obedience?
"O that thou hadst hearkened to My commandments! then had thy peace been as a
river and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea." Isa. 48:18. (Isa. 1:19, 20) (John
15:10).
What did God forbid those to do who assisted in removing the sanctuary from
place to place?
"And when Aaron and his sons have made an end of covering the sanctuary, and all
the vessels of the sanctuary, as the camp is to set forward; after that, the sons of Kohath
shall come to bear it: but they shall not touch any holy thing, lest they die." Num. 4:15.
When David designed to remove the ark of the covenant from Gibeah to
Jerusalem, how did he propose to do it?
"And they set the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it our of the house of
Abinadab that was in Gibeah; and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new
cart." 2 Sam. 6:3.
NOTE.-This was the first wrong step in the matter. God had specified that the ark should always be
borne on the shoulders of men. Num. 7:9; 1 Chron. 15:15. "Because sentence against an evil work is not
executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil."-Eccl. 8:11.
What was one of these men next emboldened to do?
"And when they came to Nachon's threshing floor, Uzzah put forth his hand to the
ark of God and took hold of it; for the oxen shook it." 2 Sam 6:6.
How did the Lord regard this act?
"And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote him there
for his error; and there he died by the ark of God." 2 Sam. 6:7.
What did Samuel say Saul had done in disobeying a plain command given
him?
"And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the
word of the Lord, and the Lord hath rejected thee from being king over Israel." 1 Sam.
15:26.
When the angels had put Lot and his family out of the doomed city of Sodom,
what admonition did they give them?
"Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay thou in all the plain; escape
to the mountain, lest thou be consumed." Gen.19:17.
When Lot's wife looked back, what became of her?
"But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt." Gen.
19:26.
In referring to this, what warning does our Saviour give to all?
"Remember Lot's wife." Luke 17:32.
When evidently citing these cases, what solemn question does the apostle ask?
"For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and
disobedience received a just recompense of reward, how shall we escape, if we neglect so
great salvation?" Heb. 2:2, 3.
What does He say in another place of those who persist in willful sins?
"For if we sin willfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there
remaineth no more sacrifice for sins." Heb. 10:26.
How does the Saviour regard the worship of those who allow a tradition to
take the place of one of God's commandments?
"But in vain they do worship Me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of
men." Matt. 15:9.