Chapter 77
Magnified by Christ
===================

State the Lord's purpose concerning the law. “The Lord is well pleased for His
righteousness' sake; He will magnify the law and make it honorable." Isa. 42:21.
Why was it necessary to magnify the law? “It is time for thee, Lord, to work; for
they have made void thy law." Ps. 119:126.
How was the law "made void" when Christ was on the earth?” And He said
unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your own
tradition." Mark 7:9 (Matt. 15:1-9).
What was Christ's attitude toward the law?” Think not that I am come to
destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill." Matt. 5:17.
How did He then proceed to magnify the law before His hearers? "Ye have
heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall
be in danger of the judgment; but I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother
without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment." Matt. 5:21, 22. (See also 1 John 3:15.)
What did He say of the seventh commandment? "Ye have heard that it was said
by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery; but I say unto you, That whoever
looketh on a woman to lust after her had committed adultery with her already in his heart."
Matt. 5:27, 28.
Did Christ Himself keep the commandments? “I have kept My Father's
commandments, and abide in His love." John 15:10.
How long did He say the law would last?” For verily I say unto you, Till heaven
and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled."
Matt. 5:18.
Why did Christ come to earth? “For what the law could not do, in that it was
weak through the flesh, God sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for
sin, condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us,
who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit." Rom. 8:3, 4.
In order to accomplish this, what was it necessary for Christ to do?” For when
we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly." Rom. 5:6.
But if the law could have been abolished, would not that have released men
from condemnation? “Because the law worketh wrath; for where no law is, there is no
transgression." Rom. 4:15.
NOTE. - It is plain that if the law of God demanded the death of Christ, and had power to slay Him
(Gal. 3:13), the law must still live, even after cursing the Son of God in our behalf. Then by yielding His life
to the demands of the law, He magnified it in His death as well as in His life.