Chapter 63
Resurrection of the Just
========================

Name the principal result of man's fall. “Wherefore as by one man sin entered
into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have
sinned." Rom. 5:12.
In what condition is man while in the grave? “Whatsoever thy hand findeth to
do, do it with thy might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in
the grave, whither thou goest." Ecc. 9:10.
What has been promised in order that man may be redeemed from this
condition? “I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem them from
death: O death, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will be thy destruction." Hosea 13:14.
Through whom will come this redemption from the grave? “For since by man
came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so
In Christ shall all be made alive." 1 Cor. 15:21, 22. (John 5: 26-29).
What would be the result to the dead had not Christ procured their release
from the grave?” For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised: and if Christ be not
raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in
Christ are perished." 1 Cor. 15:16-18.
Where are the dead when they hear the voice of Christ calling them to life?
“Marvel not at this; for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear
His voice, and shall come forth." John 5:28, 29.
How many distinct classes will have a resurrection? “There shall be a
resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust." Acts. 24:15.
How long do the others wait after the first resurrection? “And they [the
righteous] lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead lived not
again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection." Rev. 20:4, 5.
When are the righteous recompensed?” For thou shalt be recompensed at the
resurrection of the just." Luke 14:14.
In what condition did David expect to rise? “As for me, I will behold Thy face in
righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with Thy likeness." Ps. 17:15.
What great contrast will be seen between the present body, and the one to be
put on at the resurrection? “So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in
corruption, it is raised in incorruption; it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory, it is sown
in weakness, it is raised in power; it is sown in a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body."
1 Cor. 15:42-44.
After whose body will the resurrected ones be fashioned? “We look for the
Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned
like unto His glorious body." Phil. 3:20, 21.
What will the righteous do upon rising from the grave? "Thy dead men shall
live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust; for
thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead." Isa. 26:19 (1 Cor.
15:55).
How long will they be permitted to live? “Neither can they die any more; for they
are equal unto the angels; and are the children of God, being the children of the
resurrection." Luke 20:36.
What will become of those who are unworthy of a part in the first
resurrection? “But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers and
whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake
which burneth with fire and brimstone; which is the second death." Rev. 21:8.
What will then take place? “The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death." 1
Cor. 15:26.
How will the righteous ever afterward appear? “Then shall the righteous shine
forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear." Matt.
13:43.