Chapter 69
Nature of God's Law
===================

How may lawgivers are there? “There is one Lawgiver, who is able to save and to
destroy." James 4:12.
What is said of the stability of His character? “For I am the Lord, I change not."
Mal. 3:6.
What is the character of His works? “The works of His hands are verity and
judgment; all His commandments are sure. They stand fast forever and ever, and are done
in truth and uprightness." Ps. 111:7, 8.
What is the character of His law? “For we know that the law is spiritual; but I am
carnal, sold under sin." Rom. 7:14.
What is revealed in that law as necessary for the carnal man to know before
he can be converted? “And knowest His will, and approvest the things that are more
excellent, being instructed out of the law." Rom. 2:18.
Then, if there is a change in one's life, from the carnal to the spiritual, does the
law act any part in that work? “The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul: the
testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple." Ps. 19:7.
What did our Saviour say to the young man who wanted salvation?” And He
said unto him, Why callest thou Me good? there is none good but One, that is God: but if
thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments." Matt. 19:17.
Was it the intention of Christ to abolish or change any part of God's law?” For
verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass
from the law, till all be fulfilled." Matt. 5:18.
What did the Saviour say He came to do to the law? “Think not that I am come
to destroy the law or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill." Matt. 5:17.
When used in prophecy, what does the word fulfill mean? To bring to pass.
“That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet." (Matt. 4:14). "Then
shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory." 1 Cor.
15:54.
But what does the word mean associated with an obligation? - To perform, or
act in accordance with. “Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ."
Gal. 6:2 (Matt. 3:15) (James 2:8, 9).
What did Christ say He came into the world to do? “Wherefore, when He
cometh into the world, He saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldst not... Then said I, Lo,
I come (in the volume of the book it is written of Me) to do Thy will, O God." Heb. 10:5-7.
Who did the Saviour say should be saved in the kingdom of heaven? “Not
everyone that saith unto Me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that
doeth the will of My Father which is in heaven." Matt. 7:21.
What did He say of those who should break one of God's commandments?
“Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men
so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven." Matt. 5:19.
What did He say of those whose righteousness (right-doing) did not exceed
that of the scribes and Pharisees? “For I say unto you, That except your righteousness
shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into
the kingdom of heaven." Matt. 5:20.
On what particular point did Christ reprove the Pharisees? “But He answered
and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your
tradition?" Matt. 15:3.
How had they done this? “For God commanded, saying, Honor thy father and
mother;... but ye say, Whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, It is a gift,... and
honor not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made the commandment
of God of none effect by your tradition." Matt. 15:4-6.
What kind of worship did He say theirs was? “But in vain they do worship Me,
teaching for doctrines the commandments of men." Matt. 15:9.
By what rule will men's actions be weighed in the judgment? “For as many as
have sinned without law shall also perish without law; and as many as have sinned in the
law shall be judged by the law,... in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by
Jesus Christ according to my gospel." Rom 2:12-16.
How many of those who are condemned will be proved guilty by the law at
that time? “Now we know that what things soever the law saith, It saith to them who are
under the law; that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty
before God." Rom. 3:19.
By whom will the saved be blessed in the bestowal of the eternal reward?
“Then shall the King say unto them on His right hand, Come, ye blessed of My Father,
inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world." Matt. 25:34.
What blessing will God give to those who have kept His commandments?
“Blessed are they that do His commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life,
and may enter in through the gates into the city." Rev. 22:14.