Chapter 106
Fate of the Transgressor
========================

Regarding the wicked, what question does Peter ask? “For the time is come that
judgment must begin at the house of God; and if it first begin at us, what shall the end be of
them that obey not the gospel of God?" 1 Peter 4:17.
What does Paul say is the wages of sin? “For the wages of sin is death." Rom.
6:23 (Eze. 18:4).
NOTE. - Die. - To cease to live; to expire; to decease; to perish. - Webster.
What will be the character of this death? “Who shall be punished with
everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of His power." 2
Thess. 1:9 (Acts 3:23) (Matt. 10:28).
NOTE. - Destroy. - To kill; to slay; to ruin; to put an end to. - Webster.
What does the Saviour say will befall those who do not repent? “I tell you, Nay;
but, except ye repent, ye shall all like wise perish." Luke 13:3 (1 Cor. 1:18) (Job 20:4-6).
NOTE. - Perish.- To die; to lose life; to wither and decay; to be destroyed; to come to nothing; to be
blotted from existence. - Webster.
In what condition does the apostle say they shall thus perish? “But these, as
natural brute beasts, made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil of the things that they
understand not; and shall utterly perish in their own corruption." 2 Peter 2:12.
To what are the wicked in their punishment compared? “But the wicked shall
perish, and the enemies of the lord shall be as the fat of lambs; they shall consume, into
smoke shall they consume away." Ps. 37:20.
NOTE. - Consume. - To destroy by separating the parts of a thing by decomposition, as by fire, etc.;
to bring to utter ruin; to exterminate. - Webster.
What will be the results of this punishment? “As the whirlwind passeth, so is the
wicked no more; but the righteous is an everlasting foundation." Prov. 10:25.
Will any part of them be left? “For, behold, the day cometh, that shall burn as an
oven; and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that
cometh shall burn them up, saith the lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor
branch." Mal. 4:1.
What will then be their condition? “For as ye have drunk upon My holy
mountain, so shall all the heathen drink continually; yea, they shall drink, and they shall
swallow down, and they shall be as though they had not been." Obad. 1:16.
Where will the place of the wicked then be? “For yet a little while, and the
wicked shall not be; yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be." Ps.
37:10.
NOTE. - It would be difficult to keep the wicked in eternal torment without any place even, in which
to exist.
The earth in its present condition is and has been the place of the wicked.
Where will they receive their recompense, death, which is the wages of sin? “Behold,
the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth; much more the wicked and the sinner."
Prov. 11:31.
How is this accomplished? “And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and
compassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city; and fire came down from
God out of heaven, and devoured them." Rev. 20:9
Do the wicked go directly to this punishment at death? If not, when do they
receive it? “The lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations, and to reserve
the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished." 2 Peter 2:9 (Job 21:29, 30).
The earth, the sinner's "place," has been cursed with sin. To what is that
reserved? “But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word are kept in
store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men." 2 Peter
3:7.
What will be the result of this fire on the earth? “Looking for and hasting unto
the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the
elements shall melt with fervent heat." 2 Peter 3:12.
What does our Saviour call the earth when in this condition? “The Son of man
shall send forth His angels, and they shall gather out of His kingdom all things that offend,
and them which do iniquity; and shall cast them into a furnace of fire." Matt. 13:41, 42.
After the burning of the earth, what is to come? “Nevertheless we, according to
His promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness." 2
Peter 3:13.
NOTE. - The "place" of the wicked no longer exists. That, too, will be gone.
But where will the righteous then be found? “Then shall the righteous shine
forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father." Matt. 13:43.
What promise of the Saviour's will at that time be verified? “Blessed are the
meek; for they shall inherit the earth." Matt. 5:5.
What universal song will be sung? “And every creature which is in heaven, and
on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard
I saying, Blessing, and honor, and glory, and power, be unto Him that sitteth upon the
throne, and unto the Lamb forever and ever." Rev. 5:13.