Chapter 26
Consecration
============

By what act were Aaron and his sons set apart for the priesthood?
"And thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them, that they may
minister unto Me in the priest's office." Ex. 30:30.
What are God's people now called?
"But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar
people." 1 Peter 2:9.
What were they before being a "chosen" people?
"Which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God." 1 Peter
2:10.
Out of what were they called?
"That ye should show forth the praises of Him who hath called you out of darkness
into His marvelous light." 1 Peter 2:9.
For whom are the godly consecrated?
"But know that the Lord has set apart him that is godly for Himself." Ps. 4:3.
By what act does one publicly take on the Lord Jesus?
"For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ." Gal.
3:27.
When one comes to Christ, what should he desire to do?
"Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take
My yoke upon you, and learn of Me; for I am meek and lowly in heart." Matt. 11:28, 29.
If one would come to Christ to be a learner or disciple of Him, what must he
be willing to give up?
"If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children,
and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be My disciple." Luke 14:26.
How emphatic does the Saviour, then, make the conditions of one's
discipleship?
"So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot
be My disciple." Luke 14:33.
What does he say the acceptance of Christ will cause in some cases?
"I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her
mother, and the daughter-in -law against her mother-in-law. And a man's foes shall be they
of his own household." Matt. 10:35, 36.
Why does all the world unite to hate the true Christian?
"If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of
the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you." John
15:19.
How closely does Christ unite His followers to Himself?
"I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in Me, and I in him, the same
bringeth forth much fruit: for without Me ye can do nothing." John 15:5.
If one does not bear the same fruit as Christ, what may be a safe conclusion?
"If any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of His." Rom. 8:9.
But if one has the Spirit of Christ, what fruit will he bear?
"But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness,
faith, meekness, temperance." Gal. 5:22, 23.
If one is really a consecrated learner of Christ, what mind will he have?
"Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus." Phil. 2:5.
What was the mind of Christ?
"But made Himself of no reputation, and took upon Him the form of a servant,...
and being found in fashion as a man, He humbled Himself, and became obedient unto
death." Phil. 2:7, 8.
If one abides in Christ, how should he walk?
"He that saith he abideth in Him, ought himself also so to walk, even as He walked."
1 John 2:6.
For what purpose have the promises of God been bestowed on the world?
"Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises; that by these
ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the
world through lust." 2 Peter 1:4.
Then what does one's body become?
"What? know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you,
which ye have of God?" 1 Cor. 6:19.
In that case, to whom does one belong, and what is he to do?
"And ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price; therefore glorify God in
your body, and in your spirit, which are God's." 1 Cor. 6:19, 20.
When thus given to God, what position will one occupy?
"Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for
us? Then said I, Here am I; send me." Isa. 6:8.
How does David express this willing frame of mind in the servant of God?
"Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes
of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so our eyes wait upon the Lord our God, until
that He have mercy upon us." Ps. 123:2.