Chapter 21
Reconciled to God
=================

What does Paul say of the carnal mind?
"The carnal mind is enmity against God..." Rom. 8:7.
Why is the carnal mind enmity?
"For it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be." Rom. 8:7.
Can one please God while he is carnally minded?
"So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God." Rom. 8:8.
What will those receive who remain in that state?
"For to be carnally minded is death." Rom. 8:6.
NOTE.-Since the "wages of sin is death" (Rom. 6:23), and sin is the transgression of the law" (1
John 3:4), it follows that to be carnally minded is death, it is also sin, or a violation of God's law.
In what way may this condition be changed?
"We pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God." 2 Cor. 5:20.
How was this reconciliation brought about in the case of the wicked Ninevites,
when Jonah prophesied their destruction?
The king of Nineveh said, "Let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and cry
mightily unto God: yea, let them turn everyone from his evil way, and from the violence
that is in their hand." "And God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way; and
God repented of the evil, that He had said that He would do unto them; and He did it not."
Jonah 3:8, 10.
Are repentance and confession still essential to reconciliation?
"Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out." Acts. 3:
19. "If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us
from all unrighteousness." 1 John 1:9.
Is this work effected independently of the sinner's action?
"For God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever
believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16. "For if when we
were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of His Son, much more, being
reconciled, we shall be saved by His life." Rom. 5:10.
How is the carnal mind destroyed?
"Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with Him, that the body of sin might be
destroyed, that henceforth we I should not serve sin." Rom. 6:6.
When the work on the part of the sinner has been thoroughly done, how
complete will be the change in him?
"Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed
away; behold, all things are become new." 2 Cor. 5:17.
How may we know whether or not one has experienced this change?
"Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them." Matt. 7:20.
If one has a spiritual mind, what fruit will he bear?
"The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness,
faith, meekness, temperance." Gal. 5:22, 23.
What is the first result of justification?
"Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus
Christ." Rom. 5:1.
How complete is the justification of that person who becomes reconciled to
God?
"But if we walk in the light, as He is in the light, we have fellowship one with
another, and the blood of Jesus Christ His Son cleanseth us from all sin." 1 John 1:7.
When thus reconciled to God, how will the individual stand?
"There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who
walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit." Rom. 8:1.