Chapter 154
Gossiping
===========

What does the ninth commandment forbid?
"Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor." Ex. 20:16.
How is such a man regarded?
"If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle
the whole body." James 3:2.
To what double use is the tongue put?
"Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things
ought not so to be." James 3:10.
Can man, un-renewed by grace, control his tongue?
"For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is
tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind: but the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly
evil; full of deadly poison." James 3:7, 8.
What is one's duty , under the circumstances?
"Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin; but
yield yourselves unto God." Rom. 6:13.
Through whom may we find deliverance from this law of sin in our members?
"But I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and
bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. O wretched man that
I am I who shall deliver me from the body of this death? I thank God through Jesus Christ
our Lord." Rom 7:23-25.
Of what are one's words the index?
"Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh." Matt. 12:34.
What will our words have to do with our standing in the judgment?
"For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be
condemned." Matt. 12:37.
What special sin is covered by the ninth commandment?
"Thou shalt not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people; neither shalt
thou stand against the blood of thy neighbor: I am the Lord." Lev. 19:16.
What are the words of a talebearer like?
"The words of a talebearer are as wounds." Prov. 26:22.
What is their effect?
“He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth a matter
separateth very friends." Prov. 17:9.
What would follow if each attended to his own affairs only?
"Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out: so where there is no talebearer, the
strife ceaseth." Prov. 26:20.
What is the word like which is fitly spoken?
"A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver." Prov. 25:11.
To whom are our words all known?
"For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether."
Ps. 139:4.