Chapter 145
Praise and Thanksgiving
=======================

For what were all things created? “Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and
honor and power; for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were
created." Rev. 4:11.
Does man in his natural condition carry out the design of God? “For all have
sinned, and come short of the glory of God." Rom. 3:23.
While in this state, what did the Lord do for us? “But God commendeth His love
toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us." Rom. 5:8.
Through what is man permitted to come to repentance? “Or despisest thou the
riches of H is goodness and forbearance and longsuffering; not knowing that the goodness
of God leadeth thee to repentance?" Rom. 2:4.
What does Christ become to those who accept Him? “To whom God would
make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles; which is
Christ in you, the hope of glory." Col. 1:27.
When this grace is received, what will it cause one to do? “By whom also we
have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of
God." Rom. 5:2.
On what condition are we to remain members of Christ's household? “But
Christ as a son over His own house: whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and
the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end." Heb. 3:6.
How often, and for how much, should we render thanks to God? “Giving
thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ."
Eph. 5:20.
The "all things" of the last text, includes our trials and disappointments. Why
should we give thanks for them? “And we know that all things work together for good to
them that love God." Rom. 8:28.
What did Paul and Silas do when put in prison for their faith? “And at
midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sang praises unto God: and the prisoners heard them."
Acts 16:25.
How did the Lord show His pleasure at their course? “And suddenly there was
a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken: and immediately all
the doors were opened, and everyone's bands were loosed." Acts 16:26.
After being imprisoned, and then beaten by order of the Jewish Sanhedrin,
what did Peter and John do? “Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou
disquieted within me? Hope thou in God; for I shall yet praise Him, who is the health of my
countenance, and my God." Ps. 42:11.
When properly offered, what does praise to God become? "Whoso offereth
praise glorifieth Me; and to him that ordereth his conversation aright will I show the
salvation of God." Ps. 50:23.
Should our praise to God be confined to our secret devotions? “My praise shall
be of thee in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear Him." Ps.
22:25.
Why ought we thus to praise God? “My soul shall make her boast in the Lord: the
humble shall hear thereof, and be glad. " Ps. 34:2. "And when they began to sing and to
praise, the Lord set ambushments against the children of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir,
which were come against Judah: and they were smitten." 2 Chron. 20:22.
How should one approach God in prayer? “Be careful for nothing; but in
everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known
unto God." Phil, 4:6 (Col. 4:2),
What is the will of God in this matter concerning us? “In everything give
thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you." 1 Thess. 5:18.
What has our Saviour taught us to pray? "Thy will be done in earth, as it is in
heaven." Matt. 6:10.
What does David exhort all to do? "O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt
His name together." Ps. 34:3.
What good example did he set which is worthy of imitation by us when with
our brethren? “Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what He hath done
for my soul." Ps. 66:16.
What became of those, anciently, who were not thankful? “Because that, when
they knew God, they glorified Him not as God, neither were thankful; but became vain in
their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened." Rom. 1:21.
What signal deliverance was once wrought for God's people when they
offered praise to Him?
NOTE. - Read 2 Chronicles 20:1-30. It is a most thrilling account of deliverance from the enemies
of God and His people.
Section 14
Christian Service