Chapter 51
The Second Angel's Message
==========================

What announcement is made by the second angel of Rev. 14?" And there
followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she
made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication." Rev. 14:8.
To whom is the term Babylon elsewhere applied? “And the woman was arrayed
in purple and scarlet color... And upon her forehead was a name written, Mystery, Babylon
the Great, the Mother of Harlots and Abominations of the Earth." Rev. 17:4, 5.
NOTES. - A woman, in prophecy, denotes a church. Eze. 23:2-4; Jer. 3:1, 14, 20; Rom. 7:4; Rev.
14:4, 5.
What does the apostle call the church that has become corrupted by worldly
alliances? "Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is
enmity with God?" James 4:4.
NOTE. - Babylon is also said to commit fornication.
And what is that called which was to reveal the "man of sin," or the papacy?
“Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not come, except there come a
falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition." 2 Thess. 2:3.
NOTE. - If a "falling away" in this case means apostasy, the "fall" of Babylon must be a moral fall,
caused by a departure from the simplicity of the gospel.
What work was this "mother of harlots" seen to engage in? “And I saw the
woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus."
Rev. 17:6.
What was in the hand of this woman? “And the woman was arrayed in purple
and scarlet color, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup
in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication." Rev. 17:4.
What effect had this wine (false doctrine) upon those to whom it was given?”
And the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication."
Rev. 17:2.
This woman is said to be the "mother" of harlots. Are there any churches
which have sprung from the mother church of Rome, directly or indirectly, and
which resemble her in doctrine or otherwise? “If the church of Rome were ever guilty of
idolatry in relation to the saints, her daughter, the Church of England, stands guilty of the
same, which has ten churches dedicated to Mary for one dedicated to Christ." Catholic
Christian Instructed, page 18. Mr. Hopkins, in a treatise on the millennium, says: "There is
no reason to consider the anti-Christian spirit and practices confined to that which is now
called the church of Rome. The Protestant churches have much of Antichrist in them, and
are far from being wholly reformed from corruption and wickedness. “There is a powerful
element of Romanism in all the larger Protestant bodies. The clergymen do not teach to the
people the Bible itself in its purity and simplicity, but they require them to receive instead a
system of clerical interpretations of the Bible." Literal Christian.
What confessions have been made by leading men, which show that they
consider the churches to be in a fallen condition? “A confession can be had from the lips
of the pastors of most of our churches, that in our midst there are wicked, unholy, corrupt
men who maintain their position, and are saved from a righteous discipline, either by their
wealth or social position. It is true of this church, and it is true of many of the churches
around us. If a ship should go to sea with as many rotten timbers as we have spiritually
rotten members, it would go to the bottom in twenty-four hours... One thoughtful,
intelligent layman, a member of the church which is a leader in its denomination, said the
other day, 'Our church has degenerated into a great, strong, social, fashionable
organization.' " G. F .Pentecost, in Christian Statesman of Jan. 8, 1876. Robert Atkins, also,
in a sermon preached in London, said: "The truly righteous are diminished from the earth,
and no man layeth it to heart. The professors of religion of the present day, in every church,
are lovers of the world, conformers to the world, lovers of creature comfort, and aspirers
after respectability. They are called to suffer with Christ, but they shrink from even
reproach. Apostasy, apostasy, apostasy, is engraved on the very front of every church; and
did they know it, and did they feel it, there might be hope; but alas! they cry, 'We are rich,
and increased in goods, and have need of nothing.' "
What does Paul say of the condition of the church in the last days?” This know
also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own
selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers,... lovers of pleasures more than lovers of
God; having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away." 2
Tim 3:1-5.
How does the prophet elsewhere describe the condition of Babylon? “Babylon
the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every
foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird." Rev. 18:2.
Where will many of God's people be found when this cry is at its height? “And
I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, My people, that ye be not
partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues." Rev. 18:4.
In this can to "come out" of Babylon, what message does the Lord send to
guide His people into the truth for these days?” And the third angel followed them,
saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark
in his forehead, or in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which
is poured out without mixture into the cup of His indignation... Here is the patience of the
saints: here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus." Rev.
14:9-12.
NOTE. - It is worthy of notice that the first of these angels has simply an announcement to make of
the judgment at hand; the second tells the condition of the religious world, and exposes its unfitness to meet
its record in the judgment previously announced; while the third provides a remedy whereby the people may
be made ready to meet the judgment and the coming King. Thus subject is treated in the next chapter (52).