Chapter 66
Length of the Day of the Lord
=============================

What is the character of the "day of the Lord? “The great day of the Lord is
near, it is near, and hasteth greatly, even the voice of the day of the Lord; the mighty man
shall cry there bitterly. That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress." Zeph.
1:14, 15.
Under which of the seven seals does this time of wrath begin? “And I beheld
when He had opened the sixth seal." "for the great day of His wrath is come; and who shall
be able to stand?" Rev. 6:12, 17.
What signs were to appear in the heavens under this seal? “The sun became
black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood; and the stars of heaven fell unto
the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind."
Rev. 6:12, 13.
What great events were these signs to precede? “Immediately after the
tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light,
and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken; and
then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven; and then shall all the tribes of the
earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power
and great glory." Matt. 24:29, 30.
Under which of the seven seals will the Lord come to earth? “And when He had
opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour." Rev.
8:1.
How is the wrath of the day of the Lord to be manifested? “And I saw another
sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels having the seven last plagues; for in
them is filled up the wrath of God." Rev. 15:1.
Are the most of these plagues to be poured out before the Lord comes? “And
the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates... Behold, I come as a
thief: Blessed is he that watcheth, and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they
see his shame." Rev. 16:12-15.
What great event will take place at His coming? “For the Lord Himself shall
descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of
God; and the dead in Christ shall rise first." 1 Thess. 4:16.
How long after the righteous will the wicked be raised to life? “And they lived
and reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead lived not again until the
thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection." Rev. 20:4, 5.
When the wicked come up again on the earth, what will they be incited to do?”
And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison, and shall
go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, to
gather them together to battle: the number of whom is as the sand of the sea." Rev. 20:7, 8.
What will then take place? “And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and
compassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city: and fire came down from
God out of heaven, and devoured them." Rev. 20:9.
What is this lake of fire called?” The lake which burneth with fire and brimstone,
which is the second death." Rev. 21:8.
To what are the present heavens and earth reserved? “But the heavens and the
earth, which are now, by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day
of judgment and perdition of ungodly men." 2 Peter 3:7.
But will the day of the Lord reach to, and include, the burning of the earth?
“But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall
pass away with a great noise. and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also;
and the works that are therein shall be burned up." 2 Peter 3:10.