Chapter 30
Present Truth
=============

By what are men sanctified?” Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth."
John 17:17.
Would God have all men come to the knowledge of the truth? “Who will have
all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth." 1 Tim. 2:4.
After receiving a knowledge of the truth, what must one do to be sanctified?
“God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit
and belief of the truth." 2 Thess. 2:13.
And what is necessary besides believing it? “Elect according to the
foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience." 1
Peter 1:2.
What effect does obedience to the truth have? “Seeing ye have purified your
souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit." 1 Peter 1:22.
How must worship be rendered to God, that it may be acceptable? “God is a
Spirit: and they that worship Him must worship Him in spirit and in truth." John 4:24.
How should the truth ever be cherished? “Buy the truth, and sell it not." Prov.
23:23.
Is there in the Bible what may be called "present truth? “Wherefore I will not
be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though ye know them, and
be established in the present truth." 2 Peter 1:12.
What was the special message to be proclaimed in Noah's day? “And God said
unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before Me; for the earth is filled with violence
through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Make thee an ark of gopher
wood." Gen. 6:13, 14.
Did Noah build the ark? and why? “By faith Noah, being warned of God of
things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; by the
which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith."
Heb. 11:7.
How many were saved in the ark? “The long-suffering of God waited in the days
of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by
water." 1 Peter 3:20.
What special message was given to Jonah for the people of Nineveh? “So Jonah
arose, and went unto Nineveh, according to the word of the Lord... And Jonah began to
enter into the city a day's journey, and he cried, and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall
be overthrown." Jonah 3:3, 4.
What saved the people from the predicted overthrow? “So the people of
Nineveh believed God, and proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of
them even to the least of them." "And God saw their works, that they turned from their evil
way; and God repented of the evil, that He had said He would do unto them; and He did it
not." Jonah 3:5, 10.
What was the special mission of John the Baptist? “There was a man sent from
God, whose name was John. The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that
all men through Him might believe." John 1:6, 7.
What answer did he return to those who asked him about his mission? “He
said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as
said the prophet Esaias." John 1:23.
John's baptism was something new and startling to his generation. What did
those do for themselves who rejected his doctrine? “But the Pharisees and lawyers
rejected the counsel of God against themselves, being not baptized of him." Luke 7:30.
And what did those do who were baptized of John? “And all the people that
heard him, and the publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John." Luke
7:29.
Did the reputed people of God receive Christ when He came? “He came unto
His own, and His own received Him not." John 1:11.
What reason did they give for not doing so? “We know that God spake unto
Moses: as for this fellow, we know not from whence He is." John 9:29.
What did the people say when Christ referred to how their fathers slew the
prophets? “If we had been in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers
with them in the blood of the prophets." Matt. 23:30.
What was the result of the Jews' not accepting Christ? “And when He was
come near, He beheld the city, and wept over it, saying, If thou hadst known, even thou, at
least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace! but now they are hid from
thine eyes." Luke 19:41, 42.
Is there to be a special message and work for the last generation? “Therefore
be ye also ready: for in such an hour as ye think not the Son of man cometh. Who then is a
faithful and wise servant, whom his lord hath made ruler over his house- hold, to give them
meat in due season?" Matt. 24:44, 45.
What is pronounced upon those who are found doing such work? “Blessed is
that servant, whom his lord when He cometh shall find so doing." Matt. 24:46.
What will be the burden of that proclamation? “Here is the patience of the
saints: here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus." Rev.
14:12.
How earnestly is this work to be prosecuted? “And the lord said unto the servant,
Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in; that my house may be
filled." Luke 14:23.
Section 4
Life and Teachings of Jesus